# Anomaly Detection COV Structure
## DHS-2024-0011
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / CBP


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Law & Justice
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Anomaly Detection COV Structure is an AI algorithm solution to assist CBP officers in adjudicating  large-scale Non-Intrusive Inspection (NII) x-ray images. The solution will identify regions of interest within the structure of Commercially Owned Vehicles (COV) and detect anomalies within these regions. The algorithm will support the review and analysis conducted by image analysts during NII x-ray image adjudication ultimately reducing overall review time for NII images.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Bounding boxes around an anomaly or unidentifiable object(s) within an image or any portion of the image that cannot be identified or explained.
CBP is seeking anomaly detection algorithm (ADA) models that can run on U.S. government systems for rapid screening of passenger and cargo vehicles. The desired end state is a suite of algorithms that supports CBP's non-intrusive inspection (NII) image analysis for detecting anomalies and interdicting contraband to assist CBP officers’ image review with specific interest on algorithms that facilitate screening for contraband and anomaly detection in passenger vehicles and cargo conveyances. This solution will assist CBP officers in adjudicating large-scale NII x-ray images. The solution will identify regions of interest within the structure of commercially owned vehicles (COVs) and detect anomalies within these regions. It will place bounding boxes around an anomaly or unidentifiable object(s) within an image or any portion of the image that cannot be identified or explained. The algorithm will support the review and analysis conducted by image analysts during NII x-ray image adjudication, ultimately reducing overall review time for NII images.  It is expected that this will enhance the capability of humans to consistently detect items of interest/concern present (and possibly concealed) in vehicles crossing into the United States and increase clearance rate at border crossings, so that vehicles operating safely and lawfully may pass through the border faster.  
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 1/26/2023