# MiX Indicators
## DHS-2024-0131
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / OHS


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Health & Medical
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Online news and other open-source media can be used to quickly detect and respond to emerging health security threats. However, it is not practical for people to read and scan all online news stories every day for key terms. AI/ML makes it possible to read, digest and organize news stories to look for key threat terms. AI/ML will also be used to predict normal trends in news stories. This makes it possible to detect when an unusual number of health security threat terms are found in the news. This use of AI/ML helps prepare for, respond to, and protect from potential health security threats.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The main AI system output will be anomaly detection which represents two elements: 1) AI/ML predictions for usual trends in news story key terms vs. 2) the actual daily number of mentions for key terms in the news. When the actual number of mentions for key terms exceeds modeled predictions, these will be detected as anomalies.
The goal for this proof-of-concept project is to quickly detect unusual trends in online news stories related to health security threats. Open-source media are pulled from the internet, and key search terms such as pathogen or chemical names are identified and tallied across articles. AI/ML makes it possible to read, organize, and predict normal trends in news stories, making it possible to quickly detect any unusual trends (anomalies). This capability helps us to better prepare for, respond to, and protect from health security threats. 

The main AI system output will be anomaly detection, which represents two elements: 1) AI/ML predictions for usual trends in news story key terms, and 2) the actual daily number of mentions for key terms in the news. When the actual number of mentions for key terms exceeds the modeled predictions, these instances will be detected as anomalies. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 1/1/2023