# Advance RPM Maintenance Operating Reporter (ARMOR)
## DHS-2024-0028
_[Department of Homeland Security](<../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md>)_ (DHS) / CBP


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: ARMOR will shorten time to service/repair/maintenance of radiation portal monitors by two weeks. ARMOR will allow better distribution of resources (travel, spare parts, etc.) and expected cost decrease could be 25-50%. Through decreased outage time, and prediction of equipment degradation, ARMOR will increase radiological/nuclear (R/N) security on US borders.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The system will provide a listing of malfunctioning RPMs categorized by issue severity and predicted date of failure. The outputs will be used to create service tickets.
Utilizing AI and physical modeling, the Advance Radiation Portal Monitor (RPM) Maintenance Operating Reporter (ARMOR) project provides predictive maintenance of RPMs, detecting issues with the equipment before the issue causes the screening lane to be inoperable. The system will provide a listing of malfunctioning RPMs categorized by issue severity and predicted date of failure, which will be used to create service tickets. ARMOR will shorten time to service/repair/maintenance of RPMs by two weeks. ARMOR will allow better distribution of resources (travel, spare parts, etc.) with a potential cost decrease of 25-50%. Through decreased outage time, and prediction of equipment degradation, ARMOR will increase radiological/nuclear (R/N) security on U.S. borders. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Safety-Impacting
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/1/2021
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 10/1/2021