# Sentiment Analysis - Employee Satisfaction Surveys
## DHS-2024-0167
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / USCIS


+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Survey results cosed to specify the sentiments as positive negative or neutral tone in a excel dashboard
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: A graph which categorizes the data into different sentiments using datanricks dashboard  how the customer service can be improved. Does not give any reccomendation or decision.
The Sentiment Analysis - Surveys system provides a statistical analysis of quantitative results from survey results and then uses Natural Language Processing (NLP) modeling software to assign "sentiments" to categories ranging from strongly positive to strongly negative. This work has not gone beyond proof-of-concept and is not in use by any business unit. The goal of the use case was to determine whether sentiment analysis was technically feasible in the context of employee satisfaction surveys. While the technical capability was proven, potential privacy concerns were also identified. There were/are no plans to operationalize the technical capability proof-of-concept until/unless the privacy blockers are resolved. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 1/1/2019
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 1/1/2019
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: 10/1/2024