# Individual Assistance (IA) & Public Assistance (PA) Projections
## DHS-2024-0093
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / FEMA


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The purpose of these supervised learning models is two-fold:

1.	For informational purposes: the models will produce predictions for to-be-determined quantities of interest. These quantities are often of interest to Agency personnel in the field, region, and headquarters, as well as DHS, OMB, NSC, and the Whitehouse.
2.	For decisional purposes: in addition to being informative, the model’s predictions are likely to be used for decision making. This may include implicit use (e.g., seeing that there are a large number of households that require assistance may motivate FEMA CFO to consider requesting additional funding for the Disaster Relief Fund) or explicit use (e.g., the number of estimated housing units required may be used to determine the number of housing units to order just-in-time).

Anticipated benefits of using supervised learning models include:
1.	Increased predictive performance: supervised learning models offer means of quantifying and choosing models with the best possible predictive performance.
2.	Timely prediction: supervised learning models can produce reasonably high performance predictions based on limited data.
3.	Quantification of uncertainty: supervised learning models are able to provide prediction intervals and predictive distributions in addition to point predictions to give users a sense of how uncertainty is inherent in the prediction.
4.	Rigor: supervised learning models are well founded on statistical learning theory and provide a level of mathematical rigor that speaks to the reliability and limitations of methods.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: These supervised learning models produce predictions, not recommendations and not decisions (though they can be used to inform human users in making recommendations and decisions).

At minimum, these supervised learning models will produce point predictions for the different quantities of interest for disaster declarations. Additionally supervised learning models may produce prediction intervals or predictive distributions as feasible and appropriate for the given prediction problem. Often these outputs will be shared via business intelligence tools (e.g., Tableau or PowerBI) for wide internal FEMA use. Some predictions may be shared to a more restricted audience through simpler means (e.g., an excel workbook) as appropriate.
Individual Assistance (IA) and Public Assistance (PA) Projections predicts recovery program quantities of interest using supervised learning models. These models include, but not limited to, predicting the number of households that will register for the Individuals and Households Program (IHP), the number of households that will require direct housing assistance, the number of temporary transitional housing units needed, the number of applicants for Public Assistance, the number of PA projects that applicants will submit, the number of sites that will need to be inspected per PA project, and the cost of delivering assistance.  Supervised learning models include sample statistics, generalized linear models, decision trees, and deep neural networks. 

The purpose of these supervised learning models is for informational purposes, to produce predictions for to-be-determined quantities of interest and for decisional purposes that may include implicit use (e.g., seeing a large number of households requiring assistance may motivate FEMA Chief Financial Officer (CFO) to consider requesting additional funding for the Disaster Relief Fund) or explicit use (e.g., the number of estimated housing units required may be used to determine the number of housing units to order just-in-time). Anticipated benefits of using supervised learning models include increased predictive performance, timely predictions, quantification of uncertainty, and rigor. 

These supervised learning models produce predictions, not recommendations or decisions (though they can inform human users in making recommendations and decisions). At minimum, these models will produce point predictions for the different quantities of interest for disaster declarations. Additionally, they may produce prediction intervals or predictive distributions as feasible and appropriate for the given prediction problem. Often these outputs will be shared via business intelligence tools (e.g., Tableau or PowerBI) for wide internal FEMA use. Some predictions may be shared with a more restricted audience through simpler means (e.g., an excel workbook) as appropriate. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 8/1/2018
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 8/1/2018
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 6/1/2024
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed in-house.
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: Yes
+ **Identification of the High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) that the AI use case supports**: Federal Emergency Management Agency – DHS
+ **Identification of the specific public-facing service that the AI use case supports**: Applying for and receiving disaster assistance
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: No
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: Data from the National Emergency Management Information System (NEMIS) and Grants Manager
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation has been partially completed: Some documentation exists (detailing the composition and any statistical bias or measurement skew for training and evaluation purposes), but documentation took place within this use case’s development.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: None
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: Yes – agency has access to source code, but it is not public.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: No
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: No
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: None: This use case does not re-use any internally developed tooling or managed infrastructure from any other AI development efforts within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Limited documentation for review: Some information regarding the model’s performance on specific benchmarks are available or have been shared with specific stakeholders within the agency.