# Sentiment Analysis and Topic Modeling (SenTop)
## DHS-2024-0126
_[Department of Homeland Security](<../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md>)_ (DHS) / MGMT


+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The initial purpose of the Sentiment Analysis and Topic Modeling (SenTop) project was to analyze survey responses for DHS’s Office of the Chief Procurement Officer related to contracting. However, it has evolved to be a general-purpose text analytics solution that can be applied to any domain or area. It has also been tested and used for HR topics. SenTop is a DHS-developed Python package for performing descriptive text analytics, specifically, sentiment analysis and topic modeling on free-form, unstructured text. SenTop uses several methods for analyzing text, including combining sentiment analyses and topic modeling into a single capability, permitting identification of sentiments per topic and topics per sentiment. Other innovations include the use of polarity and emotion detection, fully automated topic modeling, and multi-model/multi-configuration analyses for automatic model/configuration selection. The code has been established, performs an analysis, and provides a report, but it is only accessed and run by one person per customer request.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This use case is inactive. Please see the "intended purpose and expected benefits" for a full description of this use case.
The initial purpose of the Sentiment Analysis and Topic Modeling (SenTop) project was to analyze survey responses for DHS’s Office of the Chief Procurement Officer related to contracting. However, it has evolved to be a general-purpose text analytics solution that can be applied to any domain or area. It has also been tested and used for HR topics. SenTop is a DHS-developed Python package for performing descriptive text analytics, specifically, sentiment analysis and topic modeling on free-form, unstructured text. SenTop uses several methods for analyzing text, including combining sentiment analyses and topic modeling into a single capability, permitting identification of sentiments per topic and topics per sentiment. Other innovations include the use of polarity and emotion detection, fully automated topic modeling, and multi-model/multi-configuration analyses for automatic model/configuration selection. The code has been established, performs an analysis, and provides a report, but it is only accessed and run by one person per customer request. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: 10/1/2024
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed in-house.
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No