# Optical Counter - UAS Detection
## DHS-2024-0017
_[Department of Homeland Security](<../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md>)_ (DHS) / CBP


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Law & Justice
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: This capability will automate cross-border air & ground threat detection, classification and tracking, enabling more efficient border surveillance.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This capabilty will provide alerts and tracks of detected/classified air & ground threats to system operators on a workstation user interface.
Current detection, classification [determining intention and/or threat level of each detection], and tracking of potential, cross-border air and ground threats mostly rely on human operators scanning the border environment with surveillance camera systems.  This capability leverages 360-degree rotating, high fidelity cameras on stationary towers along with computer vision machine learning (CV/ML) models to automate the detection, classification, and tracking of potential cross-border air and ground threats. This capability will automate cross-border air and ground threat detection, classification, and tracking, enabling more efficient border surveillance. It will provide alerts and tracks of detected/classified air & ground threats to system operators on a workstation user interface. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 4/1/2023