# Agent Portable Surveillance
## DHS-2024-0033
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / CBP


+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The agent portable surveillance system is a backpack mobile unit meant for single agent deployments. The system identifies border activities of interest by using AI/ML to analyze data from Electro-Optical/Infra-Red cameras and radar. When an activity is detected, the system sends the information to agents through the Team Awareness Kit (TAK). Detections are shared with CBP TAK users to enhance efficiency and agent/officer safety.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This use case is inactive. Please see the "intended purpose and expected benefits" for a full description of this use case.
The agent portable surveillance system is a backpack mobile unit meant for single agent deployments. The system identifies border activities of interest by using AI/ML to analyze data from Electro-Optical/Infra-Red cameras and radar. When an activity is detected, the system sends the information to agents through the Team Awareness Kit (TAK). Detections are shared with CBP TAK users to enhance efficiency and agent/officer safety.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: 10/1/2024