# Draft Tailored Summaries of Media Materials for Different Publication Channels
## DHS-2024-0067
_Department of Homeland Security_ (DHS) / CISA


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The Large Language Models (LLMs) will summarize information from historical publications and pre-production documents intended for external publication.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: An interface is provided for pre-publication documents to be uploaded. The system will then automatically generate appropriate messaging using approved templates and  tag the documents for review prior to publication.
CISA personnel draft product summaries for information sharing with federal and non-federal critical infrastructure partners. This is a custom generative AI solution that leverages a Large Language Model (LLM), augmented by Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG), to extract key themes from approved CISA products and automatically generate tailored summaries using approved templates. As established in required employee AI training, personnel using the tool will validate the accuracy of information and use it in accordance with applicable law and policy. The drafts are reviewed, edited, and coordinated by authorized CISA personnel prior to publication. This AI capability accelerates the process of drafting summarized content for CISA’s published products.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 11/1/2023