# Sentiment Analysis - ELIS Case Notes
## DHS-2024-0168
_[Department of Homeland Security](<../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md>)_ (DHS) / USCIS


+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Survey results cosed to specify the sentiments as positive negative or neutral tone in a excel dashboard
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: A graph which categorizes the data into different sentiments using datanricks dashboard  how the customer service can be improved. Does not give any recommendation or decision.
Once a benefit request form is submitted to USCIS, it undergoes a series of processing and adjudication actions. One of the case management systems used for tracking and adjudicating certain immigration request forms is the Electronic Information System (ELIS). ELIS is an internal case management system composed of microservices designed to assist with complex adjudicative and processing tasks. One of these microservices is the Sentiment Analysis machine learning (ML) model. This model classifies the notes taken by adjudicative officers as either positive, negative, or neutral sentiment for a particular case. Although this use case is not yet in production, it has been in development and testing for less than a year. The model was enhanced using ML to improve reusability and performance.  For more information, please visit [LINK https://www.dhs.gov/publication/dhsuscispia-056-uscis-electronic-immigration-system-uscis-elis]. The sentiment analysis output is provided to officers to consider during subsequent case processing, helping to improve efficiency and streamline workflow. This could serve as a basis for deciding or providing risk assessments related to immigration, asylum, or detention status" and/or "emotion assessment. Survey results coded to specify the sentiments as positive negative or neutral tone in a excel dashboard.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Rights-Impacting
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: 10/1/2024