# Adaptive Risk Model for Inspected Small Passenger Vessels
## DHS-2024-0153
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / USCG


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The Small Passenger Vessels (SPV) Safety Task Force leveraged machine learning and subject matter expert input to create an adaptable, quantitative analysis tool that reliably identifies the key drivers of marine casualties and calculates a risk score for each vessel within the largest segment of the U.S.-inspected fleet. A vessel risk score is computed with an analytic model which leverages logistic regression and basic machine learning. The effort directly improved marine inspector allocation, targeted risk and enhanced the governance necessary to increase passenger safety across the country.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Numerical score that compares vessels predicted safety risk relative to each other.
This AI system helps the USCG assign a numerical risk score for Small Passenger Vessels (SPV) relative to one another. The SPV Safety Task Force leveraged machine learning (ML) and subject matter expert (SME) input to create an adaptable, quantitative analysis tool that reliably identifies the key drivers of marine casualties and calculates a risk score for each vessel within the largest segment of the U.S.-inspected fleet. A vessel risk score is computed with an analytic model that leverages logistic regression and basic ML. The risk score is then combined with an SME-derived consequence score that considers the number of vessel passengers and operation distance from shore. The final combined number is used to categorize a vessel into one of three tiers: at the lowest risk tier, vessels will receive, at a minimum, mandated inspections as per Title 46 Code of Federal Regulations, while vessels in tiers 2 and 1 may receive more frequent or more thorough inspections by more experienced inspectors. Before an inspection recommendation is communicated to the vessel owner, an SME reviews and approves the vessel scores. Follow-on policy efforts set the required scope and frequency of inspection, the minimum competency of the lead inspector, and the level of accountability for each vessel. In addition to their modeling and policy efforts, this team conducted extensive education and outreach with the field, district, and area commands to aid adoption and foster implementation. Their efforts directly improved marine inspector allocation, targeted risk, and enhanced the governance necessary to increase passenger safety across the country. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 11/1/2019
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 11/1/2019
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 1/1/2021
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed in-house.
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: No
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: Commercial vessel profiles including: engineering, life saving, propulsion, fire protection, manning, operating routes, plan review, and USCG inspection activity details.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is missing or not available: No documentation exists regarding maintenance, composition, quality, or intended use of the training and evaluation data.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: None
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: Yes – agency has access to source code, but it is not public.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: No
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: No
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: None: This use case does not re-use any internally developed tooling or managed infrastructure from any other AI development efforts within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: No documentation is available: No documentation detailing model performance metrics, model architecture, features and intended use of the models have been created or are currently accessible to other data science teams within the agency.