# Cyber Vulnerability Reporting
## DHS-2024-0073
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / CISA


+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Vulnerability analysts require advanced automation tools to process data received through various vulnerability reporting channels, as well as aggregate the information for automated sharing. These tools leverage machine learning (ML) and Natural Language Processing (NLP) to increase the accuracy and relevance of data that is filtered and presented to human analysts and decision-makers. ML techniques also assist to aggregate the information in reports for presentation and further analysis. This includes data in the Known Exploited Vulnerabilities (KEV) and Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) databases.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This use case is inactive. Please see the "intended purpose and expected benefits" for a full description of this use case.
Vulnerability analysts require advanced automation tools to process data received through various vulnerability reporting channels, as well as aggregate the information for automated sharing. These tools leverage machine learning (ML) and Natural Language Processing (NLP) to increase the accuracy and relevance of data that is filtered and presented to human analysts and decision-makers. ML techniques also assist to aggregate the information in reports for presentation and further analysis. This includes data in the Known Exploited Vulnerabilities (KEV) and Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) databases. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/1/2022
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: N/A - Use case is in a pre-initation phase.