# FEMA OCFO GPT
## DHS-2024-0090
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / FEMA


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: FEMA OCFO GPT - B is an internal facing GenAI tool to augment the FEMA workforce in generating initial responses to questions for the record and providing a preliminary response to the Program Office to use in their formal response to the request. It provides draft responses reducing the data gathering stage and providing additional time for analysis, response, and approval.  This has reduced the analyst initial level of effort versus individual research by 80% on initial surveys."
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: FEMA OCFO GPT is an internal facing GenAI tool to augment the FEMA workforce in generating initial responses to questions for the record and providing a preliminary response to the Program Office to use in their formal response to the request.  FEMA OCFO GPT leverages public facing and internal deliberative documents (hearing testimony, answers sent to previous questions, and other relevant documents) to assist in answering questions the Agency receives.  The tool generates a draft response that is then refined/updated prior to providing a formal response.  This tool is leveraged in the data gathering stage and does not replace any current analysts work or Agency leadership review prior to submittal via the formal request for information or question from an internal stakeholder or external stakeholder.
FEMA Office of the Chief Financial Officer Generative Pre-trained Transformer (OCFO GPT) is an internal facing Generative AI (GenAI) tool to augment the FEMA workforce in generating initial responses to questions for the record and providing preliminary responses to questions for the record and providing preliminary responses for the Program Office. The tool leverages public facing and internal deliberative documents (e.g., hearing testimony, answers sent to previous questions) to assist in answering questions the Agency receives. It generates draft responses that are then refined before formal submission. This tool is used in the data gathering stage and does not replace the work of analysts or the review by Agency leadership.  It reduces the analyst initial level of effort versus individual research.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 7/1/2023
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 8/1/2023
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 2/12/2024
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: N/A -Consolidated into another use case.