# Verification Match Model
## DHS-2024-0160
_Department of Homeland Security_ (DHS) / USCIS


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Leveraging AI in the USCIS verification matching process of known records across systems is beneficial because it streamlines existing USCIS review by 1) improving associated system accuracy, 2) reducing human-error by automating person-and-record match scoring, and 3) matching at a higher volume than traditional tools or manual processes can capably achieve.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: A recommendation and score that indicates person-and-record match probability used by verification systems (E-verify and SAVE) to improve accuracy in initial system response.
The Verification Match Model utilizes machine learning (ML) to gather information from multiple systems and match it to known records by comparing names, dates of birth, and other identifiers. This supports two key USCIS Verification Division (VER) programs: the Employment Verification Program (E-Verify) and the Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements (SAVE) Program.  The model streamlines verification data integration services by providing a ranked order of the best matches, expressed as confidence scores, between the identifiers used by the two programs. These improved matches increase the accuracy of E-Verify and SAVE, ensuring they use the most recent and accurate documents to determine benefit status. E-Verify handles approximately 250,000 requests per day and SAVE handles approximately 70,000 requests per day. Multiple data verification models for SAVE and E-Verify exist, complicating efficiency and performance. By consolidating these into a single, unified Verification Match Model within a separate microservice, the use case aims to improve the accuracy of responses and reduce the need for manual review. ML plays a key role in the continuous improvement of these models, ultimately reducing the need for manual case reviews. 

Leveraging AI in the USCIS verification matching process of known records across systems is beneficial because it streamlines existing USCIS reviews by 1) improving system accuracy, 2) reducing human error through automated person-and-record match scoring, and 3) handling a higher volume of matches than traditional tools or manual processes can achieve.  The ouput is a recommendation and score indicating person-and-record match probability, used by verification systems (E-verify and SAVE) to improve accuracy in initial system responses. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Rights-Impacting
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 7/12/2023