# Cyber Threat Intelligence Feed Correlation
## DHS-2024-0071
_[Department of Homeland Security](<../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md>)_ (DHS) / CISA


+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Cyber Data Feed Correlation uses AI enabled capabilities to provide accelerated correlation across multiple incoming information feeds. This enables more timely enrichment to improve the externally shared information feeds. AI allows the algorithm to use the information items and results to learn the most efficient ways to perform the task. Additionally, tailored algorithms could be created to provided sustained surveillance of threat actor Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (TTPs).
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This use case is inactive. Please see the "intended purpose and expected benefits" for a full description of this use case.
Cyber Data Feed Correlation uses AI enabled capabilities to provide accelerated correlation across multiple incoming information feeds. This enables more timely enrichment to improve the externally shared information feeds. AI allows the algorithm to use the information items and results to learn the most efficient ways to perform the task. Additionally, tailored algorithms could be created to provided sustained surveillance of threat actor Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (TTPs). 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/1/2022
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: N/A - Use case is in a pre-initation phase.