# Climate Change Assessment Tool
## DHS-2024-0121
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / MGMT


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Our Nationis already experiencing the adverse impacts from climate change, from sea-level rise, extreme heat, flooding, and drought, to changes in migration patterns and harmful effects on workforce health. DHS needs to be able to better understand and predict where extreme weather conditions will affect DHS assets, including our facilities and our workforce, in the near and long-term. In support of the DHS Climate Action Plan, this AI pilot will enable the detection and streamliinng the assessment of cost/benefit data driven decisions like the location of facilities, prioritization of O&M projects and the health and safety of the DHS workforce. 

Benefits include cost savings, time savings and improved access to critical data and ability to make decisions, improved health and safety of the workforce.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Outputs include the prediction and early detection of extreme weather risks and an integrated understanding of the affects this will have on critical DHS resources. A secondary output is cost-benefit recommendations.
The Climate Change Assessment Tool is a protype that explores how AI can be used to inform decisions in the Real Properties and Sustainability and Environmental Protection functional areas. For Phase 1 of this climate prototype, traditional machine learning (ML) will be leveraged to do anomaly detection. Multiple ML algorithms will be explored and evaluated. The prototype will use AI to detect anomalies in climate projections, weather data, and extreme weather event damage costs, identifying patterns and considerations for facility managers from a resiliency perspective. The outputs of the model will be numerical values corresponding to an anomaly score, visualized in a dashboard along with geolocation data. These outputs will be refined through user engagement with POCs from the Real Properties group. A key benefit of using AI/ML for this project is AI’s ability to process vast amounts of data for pattern detection in climate change exposure assessment and sustainability planning, taking advantage of data processing and model scalability/latency. In support of the DHS Climate Action Plan, this AI pilot will enable the detection and streamlining the assessment of cost/benefit data driven decisions like the location of facilities, prioritization of projects and the health and safety of the DHS workforce. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 3/1/2024
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 11/19/2024
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with both contracting and in-house resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: 70RDAD23FR0000148
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: DHS Real Property/Facility Data, DHS Employee and Contractor Data, DHS Facility utilization (e.g. energy usage) Data
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is widely available: Documentation is not only complete, but is widely accessible within the agency, and has an owner and a regular update cadence.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: None
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: Management Cube (MGMT Cube)
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: More than 12 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: No
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Other
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: None: This use case does not re-use any internally developed tooling or managed infrastructure from any other AI development efforts within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: No documentation is available: No documentation detailing model performance metrics, model architecture, features and intended use of the models have been created or are currently accessible to other data science teams within the agency.