# MiX MedINT (Medical Intelligence Dashboard and Canvas)
## DHS-2024-0132
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / OHS


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Health & Medical
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Health security visuals will be created using a broad variety of data pulled from online sources. AI/ML will make it possible to translate this information into machine-readable data. AI/ML will also find relevant terms in these online articles, such as for locations and diseases of interest, label articles accordingly, and rank articles for relevance to topics of interest. These necessary steps cannot practically be performed by people. AI/ML will then support MedINT Canvas to  visualize connections between topics of interest, such as the presence of key symptoms and disease diagnoses in certain locations. Given the wide variety of potential health security threats, wholistic visual tools are needed to allow analysts to broadly monitor the health security landscape.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The main AI system output will be the translation of online information into a structured, machine-readable dataset. This includes language translation for non-English articles, labeling articles by health threat types, and ranking articles by relevance to health threats. This dataset will then be used to create the wholistic visuals in Canvas and Dashboard.
The goal for this proof-of-concept project is to create wholistic visuals of a wide variety of health security data. These data will be pulled from online open sources to broadly include, for example, news on societal conflicts, scientific literature, and reports on weather and aggregated (not individual level) information on disease for humans and wildlife. Visuals will be created using two different approaches. One approach (MedINT Dashboard) is to view global mapping of the health security events, where each event is tagged on the map to its reported location. The map can be modified to view different health security layers and zoomed in/out to locations of interest. The second approach (MedINT Canvas) is to build a data visualization of interest by selecting topics, such as a disease, symptom, and location, and then observing if and how these topics connect through recent health security events. AI/ML will make this project possible by streamlining the pull of openly available online data into a machine-readable dataset. AI/ML will also support the MedINT Canvas visuals by finding relevant terms in online articles, labeling articles accordingly, and ranking them for relevance to topics of interest. These necessary steps cannot practically be performed by people. Allowing analysts to wholistically visualize health security data will enable identification of potential threats that should be further investigated. 

The main AI system output will be the translation of online information into a structured, machine-readable dataset. This includes language translation for non-English articles, labeling articles by health threat types, and ranking articles by relevance to health threats. This dataset will then be used to create the wholistic visuals in Canvas and Dashboard. 

MedINT will use only open-source and aggregated level data without personal identifiers.  It will not use individual medical data. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 1/1/2021