# AI Enabled Autonomous Underwater Vehicle
## DHS-2024-0008
_[Department of Homeland Security](<../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md>)_ (DHS) / CBP


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Law & Justice
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) Office of Field Operations (OFO) has identified significant potential for parasitic loads on vessels entering and exiting ports of entry. The current identification method is using dive teams or borrowing larger ROV units from Local, State, or Federal partners. Through autonomous systems, OFO can more efficiently and safely identify anomalies/items of interest.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This AI helps a small submarine drone detect possible contraband or safety risks to prioritize additional checks by human divers.


The technology allows for increased shared situational awareness in real time for OFO and strategic partners and improves mission planning and agent and officer safety, while reducing reactionary gaps. 
[this needs to be more clear about the ai system outputs - is the ai outputting suspected loads indicators? imagery? the closed loop fully autonomous navigation implies other self-looping outputs for navigation on obstacles and currents, are there any others?]
Advanced sonar, navigation, and communications system subsea vehicle is a fully integrated, hand-portable, low detection threshold system that has the small footprint and maneuverability to inspect underwater infrastructure.  It integrates Doppler Velocity Log (DVL), Ultra-Short Baseline (USBL), Inertial Navigation System (INS), and acoustic and optical modems. This enables highly reliable, fully autonomous underwater missions and provides obstacle detection and collision avoidance.  The system will be developed to assist in the detection of parasitic smuggling attempts on the outer hull of maritime vessels. Office of Field Operations (OFO) has identified significant potential for smuggling of narcotics attached to the outer hull of marine vessels entering and exiting ports of entry. The current identification method is using dive teams or borrowing larger Remotely Operated Vehicle (ROV) units from Local, State, or Federal partners. Through autonomous systems, OFO can more efficiently and safely identify anomalies/items of interest.  The technology allows for increased shared situational awareness in real time for OFO and strategic partners and improves mission planning and agent and officer safety, while reducing reactionary gaps. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 1/1/2024