# Port of Entry Risk Assessments
## DHS-2024-0040
_[Department of Homeland Security](<../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md>)_ (DHS) / CBP


+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: CBP utilizes AI to develop, inform, and augment risk assessment processes that evaluate trade and travel data in real-time.  AI methods are applied to CBP data holdings, and the results are used to inform decision making.  These tools are continuously evaluated to ensure accuracy and precision, and support CBP’s core mission as part of the layered risk assessment strategy.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This use case is inactive. Please see the "intended purpose and expected benefits" for a full description of this use case.
CBP utilizes AI to develop, inform, and augment risk assessment processes that evaluate trade and travel data in real-time.  AI methods are applied to CBP data holdings, and the results are used to inform decision making.  These tools are continuously evaluated to ensure accuracy and precision, and support CBP’s core mission as part of the layered risk assessment strategy. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: 10/1/2024