# TSA Case Handling Platform
## DHS-2024-0147
_[Department of Homeland Security](<../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md>)_ (DHS) / TSA


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The tool saves case workers manual time to download reports, order, and compile. The case workers can then use their time to work on cases rather than administrative tasks. Newton POC has the potential of streamlining collection processes related to cases, and creating custom reports from various materials during the case managers interview process, producing a centralized tool to manage and control all steps within each case.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The LLM automation capabilities include compiling, ordering, and exporting a PDF document that contains 6 key documents from the initial steps of formal complaint process, and 3 key documents at the final stages of the complaint.
The Transportation Safety Administration’s (TSA’s) Case Handling Platform is a custom case management platform developed for TSA’s Civil Rights and Civil Liberties Office that leverages AI technologies like large language models (LLMs) and machine learning (ML) to generate recommended language for common documents and reports for claims handlers working on Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) claims by synthesizing the information collected about a case and input into the platform. Language recommendations are assessed by human reviewers before implementation. 

The tool saves case workers manual time to download, order, and compile reports. The case workers can then use their time to work on cases rather than administrative tasks. The use case has the potential of streamlining collection processes related to cases, creating custom reports from various materials during the case managers interview process, producing a centralized tool to manage, and controlling all steps within each case. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 7/1/2024