# OCFO Response Augmentation Suite
## DHS-2024-0091
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / FEMA


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: 1) FEMA OCFO GPT - B is an internal facing GenAI tool to augment the FEMA workforce in generating initial responses to questions for the record and providing a preliminary response to the Program Office to use in their formal response to the request. 
2) FEMA OCFO GPT provides draft responses reducing the data gathering stage and providing additional time for analysis, response, and approval.  This has reduced the analyst initial level of effort versus individual research by 80% on initial surveys.

1) Travel Policy GPT is an internal facing GenAI tool to augment the FEMA workforce in generating initial responses to questions regarding FEMA/DHS Travel Policy, including the JTR, and providing a preliminary response to the travel specialist to use in their formal response to the queries. 
2) The tool provides improved responses saving the end user 80-90% of the time versus regular engagement with the Travel Service Center.  The tool also allows travelers to ask specific questions that require Travel Service Center engagement, limiting the needed triage and speeding resoultion times.

1) Fiscal Policy GPT is an internal facing GenAI tool to augment the FEMA workforce in providing preliminary responses to questions regarding FEMA/DHS Fiscal Policy.
2) The tool provides improved responses saving the end user 80-90% of the time versus regular engagement with the DHS/FEMA OCFO Policy.  The tool also allows internal users to ask specific questions that require Fiscal Policy engagement, limiting the needed triage and speeding resoultion times.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: FEMA OCFO GPT is an internal facing GenAI tool to augment the FEMA workforce in generating initial responses to questions for the record and providing a preliminary response to the Program Office to use in their formal response to the request.  FEMA OCFO GPT leverages public facing and internal deliberative documents (hearing testimony, answers sent to previous questions, and other relevant documents) to assist in answering questions the Agency receives.  The tool generates a draft response that is then refined/updated prior to providing a formal response.  This tool is leveraged in the data gathering stage and does not replace any current analysts work or Agency leadership review prior to submittal via the formal request for information or question from an internal stakeholder or external stakeholder.

Travel Policy GPT is an internal facing GenAI tool to augment the FEMA workforce in generating initial responses to questions regarding FEMA/DHS Travel Policy, including the JTR, and providing a preliminary response to the travel specialist to use in their formal response to the queries.  Travel Policy GPT leverages the JTR and internal travel policy documents to assist in answering questions the FEMA Travel Service Center receives.  The tool generates a draft response that is then refined/updated prior to providing a formal response.  This tool is leveraged in the data gathering stage and does not replace any current analysts work or leadership review, as required, prior to submittal via the formal request for information or question from a traveler traveling on FEMA's behalf or in accordance with their duties to support the FEMA mission.

Fiscal Policy GPT is an internal facing GenAI tool to augment the FEMA workforce in providing preliminary responses to questions regarding FEMA/DHS Fiscal Policy.  Fiscal Policy GPT will leverage the DHS FMPM and FEMA Fiscal Policy documents.  The tool is planned to generate a draft response with references to assist FEMA internal workforce in compliance with established policy.  This tool is leveraged in the data gathering stage and does not replace good judgement or in any way impact decisions on compliance with established Fiscal Policy.  The tool will display a disclaimer to this effect that will be cleared with FEMA/DHS OGC, as appropriate.
FEMA Office of the Chief Financial Officer Generative Pre-trained Transformer (OCFO GPT), Travel Policy GPT and Fiscal Policy GPT are internal Generative AI (GenAI) tools designed to support the FEMA workforce by generating initial responses to various queries. These tools leverage relevant public and internal documents to draft preliminary responses, which are then refined prior to formal submission. They assist in the data gathering stage, but do not replace the critical review and judgement of FEMA analysts and leadership.  FEMA OCFO GPT generates initial responses to questions for the record, leveraging public and internal documents, and provides a preliminary response to the Program Office to use in their formal response to the request. It reduces the data gathering stage, saving analysts 80% of the initial effort.  Travel Policy GPT generates initial responses to questions regarding FEMA/DHS Travel Policy, including the JTR, and provides a preliminary response to the travel specialist to use in their formal response to the queries.  It improves response times, saving users 80-90% of the time compared to regular engagement with the Travel Service Center.  Fiscal Policy GPT provides preliminary responses to questions regarding FEMA/DHS Fiscal Policy and will generate a draft response with references to assist FEMA internal workforce in compliance with established policy.  It saves users 80-90% of the time compared to regular engagement with DHS /FEMA OCFO policy and speeds up resolution times.  These tools do not replace analysts’ work or leadership review, but enhance efficiency in data gathering and preliminary response stages. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 7/1/2023
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 8/1/2023
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 2/1/2024
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: 70FA3124F00000027
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: No
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: Budget Exhibits, Passback Materials, Hearing Testimony, Questions Received, Answers Provided

Travel Policy Documents (Joint Travel Regulation (JTR), DHS Travel Policy, FEMA Travel Policy)

Fiscal Policy Documents - Treasury Financial Manual (TFM), DHS Financial Policy Manual, FEMA Fiscal Policies
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation has been partially completed: Some documentation exists (detailing the composition and any statistical bias or measurement skew for training and evaluation purposes), but documentation took place within this use case’s development.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: None
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: Yes – agency has access to source code, but it is not public.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: FEMA OCFO GPT
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: Use of existing data platforms: This use case is being developed on existing enterprise data and analytics platforms within the agency rather than procuring additional platforms or SaaS to operate.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Limited documentation for review: Some information regarding the model’s performance on specific benchmarks are available or have been shared with specific stakeholders within the agency.