# Hazard Mitigation Assistance Chatbot
## DHS-2024-0086
_Department of Homeland Security_ (DHS) / FEMA


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Emergency Management
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The intended purpose is to deploy an AI-powered internal chatbot that serves as a centralized, intuitive user interface for staff across all FEMA regions and headquarters. The intended outcomes include: Improving Efficiency and Consistency by providing quick access to accurate information, the chatbot streamlines work processes, reduces redundancy, and ensures consistent procedures across regions. Accelerate Onboarding of new hires become competent more quickly, reducing the time to full productivity and strengthening the workforce. Ensure Compliance and Accountability by being Transparent and accurate guidance promotes adherence to HMA policies, reducing errors and enhancing program integrity. Enhancing Decision-Making by providing access to precise citations and real-time data improves the quality of decisions, benefiting program outcomes. Supporting FEMA's mission by empowering staff to perform effectively, the chatbot enhances overall efficiency and service delivery, aligning with FEMA's goal of improving program delivery and serving the whole community.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The chatbot will provide accurate, uniform answers with citations, ensuring everyone is aligned and reducing the risk of misinterpretation of publicly available HMA data sourced from FEMA.gov. 
The chatbot will provide clear, plain-language explanation, highlighting eligibility criteria, funding priorities, and application processes for each HMA program. The chatbot will quickly retrieve relevant HMA policy documents, provides precise citations, and summarizes key points. The chatbot will compile publicly available of publicly available HMA data sourced from FEMA.gov., perform the analyses, and present it in a clear report with visualizations.
The Hazard Mitigation Assistance (HMA) Chatbot, will be developed for Internal Stakeholders Navigating HMA Grant Applications with Benefit-Cost Analysis (BCA) Assistance, Project Scoping, and Feasibility Support to serve as a centralized, intuitive user interface for staff across all Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) regions and headquarters. The AI-powered chatbot will utilizing Natural Language Processing (NLP) to provide tailored, context-specific guidance to assist FEMA HMA staff, including new hires, who face significant challenges in accessing and processing vast amounts of information related to applications and grants. Benefits include accelerating onboarding of new hires, reducing the time to full productivity, ensuring compliance and accountability through transparency and accuracy, reducing errors, enhancing decision-making by providing access to precise citations and real-time data, and improving the quality of decisions which benefit program outcomes. The chatbot aims to enhance overall efficiency and service delivery, aligning with FEMA's goal of improving program delivery and serving the whole community. 

The chatbot will provide accurate, uniform answers with citations, ensuring everyone is aligned and reducing the risk of misinterpretation of publicly available HMA data sourced from FEMA.gov. The chatbot will provide clear, plain-language explanation, highlighting eligibility criteria, funding priorities, and application processes for each HMA program. The chatbot will quickly retrieve relevant HMA policy documents, provides precise citations, and summarizes key points. The chatbot will compile publicly available HMA data sourced from FEMA.gov, perform analyses, and present it in a clear report with visualizations.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 9/5/2024
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 9/5/2024
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with both contracting and in-house resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: 70FA6022A00000001
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: The agency-owned data included all HMA policy, training, and data available on FEMA.gov. This include OpenFEMA datasets, Legal/Policy Documents (i.e., federal legal and policy references, such as nondiscrimination clauses and presidential memorandums); Regulations (i.e., regulatory texts, including sections of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR)); and Guides and Handbooks (i.e., FEMA-issued guides that provide frameworks and instructions, such as planning handbooks and operational guides).
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation has been partially completed: Some documentation exists (detailing the composition and any statistical bias or measurement skew for training and evaluation purposes), but documentation took place within this use case’s development.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: None
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: No
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Other
+ **Explanation for whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: We have identified the FEMA GenAI Sandbox as the IT infrastructure and are working with OCIO to utilize the infrastructure.
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Other
+ **Whether communication regarding the provisioning of requested resources for the AI use case has been timely**: We are working with OCIO to develop a process to request the Azure computing resources to develop and test the chatbot.
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Other
+ **Explanation for whether communication regarding the provisioning of requested resources for the AI use case has been timely**: Yes, but Mission requirements and resource restraints are a factor.
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: None: This use case does not re-use any internally developed tooling or managed infrastructure from any other AI development efforts within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: No documentation is available: No documentation detailing model performance metrics, model architecture, features and intended use of the models have been created or are currently accessible to other data science teams within the agency.