# Sentiment Analysis -FOD Field Offices Complaints and Reviews
## DHS-2024-0161
_[Department of Homeland Security](<../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md>)_ (DHS) / USCIS


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: This system indicates the positive or negative feelings people express in their feedback to the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS).

Survey results categorized to specify the sentiments as positive negative or neutral tone in an excel dashboard.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: A graph which categorizes the data into different sentiments using databricks dashboard to see how the customer service can be improved. Does not give any recommendation or decision.
The Sentiment Analysis - FOD Field Offices Complaints and Reviews system analyzes feedback received by USCIS to determine the positive or negative sentiments expressed. This system provides a statistical analysis of quantitative results from complaints, reviews the results, and then uses machine learning (ML) techniques to assign sentiments to categories ranging from strongly positive to strongly negative. This helps survey administrators to identify trends and glean valuable from both quantitative and qualitative data. This capability is currently available and under consideration by the Field Operations Directorate (FOD). FOD receives complaints from the public through the USCIS Office of Investigations (OI) via telephone, mail, email, and a dedicated website. These complaints contain detailed descriptions of the in-office experiences. FOD personnel read, research, and resolve these complaints on a case-by-case basis. FOD uses the Sentiment Analysis - FOD Field Offices Complaints and Reviews system for ML analysis to provide an extra layer of information that helps FOD identify and resolve issues generally (without changing the process of resolving complaints). Currently, FOD reports complaints counts by pending and resolved and general bins determined by FOD HQ. It’s this binning that FOD would like to improve because they may be missing key trends and/or early identification of general issues. FOD were looking for generalization, a summary of aggregated complaints. 

The system categorizes feedback sentiments into positive, negative, or neutral tones, displayed in a dashboard. This graphical representation helps visualize how customer service can be improved but does not provide specific recommendations or decisions. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/29/2024