# I4 Viewer Matroid Image Analysis
## DHS-2024-0042
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / CBP


+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Matroid is a software that enables CBP end users to create and share vision detectors. Matroid detectors are trained computer vision models that recognize objects, people, and events in any image and in video streams. Once a detector is trained, it can monitor streaming video in real time, or efficiently search through pre-recorded video data or images to identify objects, people, and events of interest. Users can view detection information via a variety of reports and alert notifications to process and identify important events and trends. Detection data is also available through Matroid’s powerful developer Application Programming Interface and language-specific clients, so CBP applications can be integrated with the power of computer vision.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This use case is inactive. Please see the "intended purpose and expected benefits" for a full description of this use case.
Matroid is a software that enables CBP end users to create and share vision detectors. Matroid detectors are trained computer vision models that recognize objects, people, and events in any image and in video streams. Once a detector is trained, it can monitor streaming video in real time, or efficiently search through pre-recorded video data or images to identify objects, people, and events of interest. Users can view detection information via a variety of reports and alert notifications to process and identify important events and trends. Detection data is also available through Matroid’s powerful developer Application Programming Interface and language-specific clients, so CBP applications can be integrated with the power of computer vision. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: 10/1/2024