# AI Assisted Compromise Email Detector (AACED)
## DHS-2024-0110
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / ICE


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The use case was developed to assist ICE SOC in reviewing a collection of emails between ICE personnel and Microsoft that were part of ED 24-02.  The use case provides a faster mechanism to the SOC analysts to determine indicators of compromise, reducing the level of effort for these individuals’ analysis exponentially.  To assist the analysts, Named Entity Recognition (NER) was used to detect PII and other associated keywords to increase analyst productivity, and reduce time required to analyze emails.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Outputs are named entities and generated text for specific questions. Chat interface for analyst to conduct Q&A with email as context.
The AI Assisted Compromise Email Detector (AACED) helps prioritize which emails human security analysts should investigate first to identify cyber compromise ICE. This use case reports AI-enabled analysis on a one-time export of emails between ICE and Microsoft relevant to Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) Emergency Directive 24-02. This use case does not perform live email analysis and only includes emails sent to/from ICE email accounts. 

The Information Assurance Division (IAD) within ICE is responsible for providing Cybersecurity Services to ICE, including operating the ICE Security Operations and Computer Security Incident Response Center through its Cyber Defense & Intelligence Branch. The Branch performs information assurance mitigation, responds to (and reports on) Information Technology (IT) security incidents, performs systems vulnerability testing, and monitors and evaluates the security performance on sensitive enterprise systems. CISA published Emergency Directive (ED) 24-02: Mitigating the Significant Risk from Nation-State Compromise of Microsoft Corporate Email System in which all Federal Government Agencies were required to review the stored email metadata from Microsoft to determine if they were affected from the breach. This requires the investigation of tens of thousands of emails to determine if there were any signs of compromise or Personally Identifiable Information (PII) leakage. 

The use case was developed to assist ICE Security Operations Center (SOC) in reviewing a collection of emails between ICE personnel and Microsoft that were part of ED 24-02.  It provides a faster mechanism for SOC analysts to determine indicators of compromise, reducing the level of effort for these individuals’ analysis exponentially.  To assist the analysts, Named Entity Recognition (NER) was used to detect PII and other associated keywords while a locally running Large Language Model (LLM), with no external connections, answers questions about selected emails.  The LLM also answers preset questions formulated from Standard Operating Procedures (SOP). The analysts use the outputs to expedite the detection of PII and key language within emails, reducing the time needed to analyze the total collection of emails.  If the use case detects PII or key language, then those emails are ranked as higher risk and prioritized by the analyst. The analyst then inspects the email at that location for presence of the data and logs it manually allowing for specified actions based on the results of the analysts’ review.  Ultimately, all emails are manually inspected and depending on the circumstance of the investigation the ICE Privacy Office may be contacted notifying them of the PII that was exposed, or the analyst will provide the information to the SOC Leadership to initiate the incident response process to perform remediation actions needed.  The use case only provides ranking for prioritized processing to the SOC analysts. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 5/1/2024
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 5/1/2024
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 6/1/2024
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed in-house.
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: Stored Agency emails used for validation.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation has been partially completed: Some documentation exists (detailing the composition and any statistical bias or measurement skew for training and evaluation purposes), but documentation took place within this use case’s development.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: None
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: Yes – agency has access to source code, but it is not public.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: No
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: None: This use case does not re-use any internally developed tooling or managed infrastructure from any other AI development efforts within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: No documentation is available: No documentation detailing model performance metrics, model architecture, features and intended use of the models have been created or are currently accessible to other data science teams within the agency.