# Predicted to Natzuralize
## DHS-2024-0169
_[Department of Homeland Security](<../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md>)_ (DHS) / USCIS


+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The Predicted to Naturalize model predicts when Legal Permanent Residents would be eligible to naturalize and attempts to provide a current address. This model could potentially be used to send correspondence to USCIS customers of their resident status and notify others of potential USCIS benefits.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This use case is inactive. Please see the "intended purpose and expected benefits" for a full description of this use case.
The Predicted to Naturalize model predicts when Legal Permanent Residents would be eligible to naturalize and attempts to provide a current address. This model could potentially be used to send correspondence to USCIS customers of their resident status and notify others of potential USCIS benefits.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 1/1/2023
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 1/1/2023
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: N/A - This use case was never initiated and never formally retired.