# Digital Processing Procedure Manual (D-PPM)
## DHS-2024-0089
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / FEMA


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The AI addresses the inefficiency in the current manual search process, where agents spend significant time navigating static documents like PDFs (2000+ pages/70 documents) to answer survivor questions. As policies can change frequently, especially during disasters, it is crucial that agents access the most up-to-date information quickly and accurately.

Expected Benefits and Positive Outcomes:
Faster Response Times: The AI will enable agents to retrieve information quickly, reducing the overall time spent on each call.
Improved Answer Accuracy: By providing more accurate and relevant search results, the AI will help agents deliver consistent, correct responses.
Cost Savings: Reducing the time spent per call will improve operational efficiency, leading to potential cost savings.
Reduced Escalations: By empowering agents with the correct information, the tool will lower the frequency of escalations to supervisors, allowing them to focus on more complex cases.
Increased Capacity for Complex Casework: The time saved through the AI tool will allow agents to handle more complex queries, ultimately improving service quality and survivor satisfaction.
Scalability: As the AI tool is rolled out, it will provide a scalable solution that can grow with the agency’s needs during large-scale disaster responses.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The AI will provide search results based on the agent's query, identifying the most relevant policies, procedures, and disaster-specific information. These results will be returned in real-time, enabling agents to quickly review and apply the information to their responses. While the AI does not make final decisions, it assists agents by highlighting the most applicable information for them to review.

Search Results: The AI use case will pull information on relevant policies and procedures from the prescribed policy inventory. It may generate a summary of the search results with citations of the source documents.
The Digital Processing Procedures Manual (D-PPM) technology is an AI-based search that will be implemented in call centers and remote field services locations to enhance agent support, encourage proper utilization of guidance and procedures, and ensure a consistent, empathic survivor experience. Leveraging this intelligent retrieval technology does not rely on extensive application changes and offers substantial benefits in providing round-the-clock support while prioritizing complex inquiries. This initiative aims to enhance survivor satisfaction and call center efficiency by reducing call handle times and maintaining or improving answer quality.  The current applications for handling agent inquiries for processing applications are resource-intensive, leading to high operational costs and inefficiencies, especially during peak periods immediately following presidential-declared disasters. Currently, FEMA has a repository on SharePoint called the Processing Procedures Manual (PPM) that houses more than 70 documents that make up over 2,000 pages worth of content and guidance. Agents search this content and guidance with find function and keyword search, first having to find the right document, and then using keyword-based search and find functionality, negatively impacting efficiency and quality and leading to increases in escalations to higher tiers of agents/support who are no longer freed up to work on more complex situations.  Implementation of a 24/7 digital, interactive application will expedite guidance comprehension and discovery to provide better support to disaster survivors during active disasters. The system would use AI and search capabilities to intelligently analyze FEMA policies and guidance and assist the agents through the assistance review and award process.  

The AI will enable agents to retrieve information quickly, reducing the overall time spent on each call.  By providing more accurate and relevant search results, the AI will help agents deliver consistent, correct responses.  Reducing the time spent per call will improve operational efficiency, leading to potential cost savings.  By empowering agents with the correct information, the tool will lower the frequency of escalations to supervisors, allowing them to focus on more complex cases.  The time saved through the AI tool will allow agents to handle more complex queries, ultimately improving service quality and survivor satisfaction.  As the AI tool is rolled out, it will provide a scalable solution that can grow with the agency’s needs during large-scale disaster responses. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/2/2024