# CBP Translate
## DHS-2024-0048
_[Department of Homeland Security](<../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md>)_ (DHS) / CBP


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Law & Justice
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: CBP Translate is used to facilitate clear communication between officers and non-English-speaking individuals during border interactions. The AI enhances efficiency by reducing language barriers, supports diverse languages for greater inclusivity, and ensures accurate communication to minimize misunderstandings during critical procedures.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The system provides real-time translations of spoken or written communication, detects individuals' languages for accurate translation, and generates logs of interactions for review, streamlining processes and ensuring clear communication. This output is used to support necessary interpretation but sworn statements and official communications for law-enforcement purposes are moved to stardard translation services when necessary for formal documenation and questioning.
CBP Translate is a mobile and web application designed to assist CBP officers in communicating with travelers who speak diverse languages during inspections at U.S. ports of entry. It supports real-time, multilingual translation for interviews, inspections, and other interactions, improving efficiency and accessibility at ports of entry and during border processes., CBP Translate is used to facilitate clear communication between officers and non-English-speaking individuals during border interactions. The AI enhances efficiency by reducing language barriers, supports diverse languages for greater inclusivity, and ensures accurate communication to minimize misunderstandings during critical procedures. The system provides real-time translations of spoken or written communication, detects individuals' languages for accurate translation, and generates logs of interactions for review. The output is used to support necessary interpretation but sworn statements and official communications for law-enforcement purposes are moved to standard translation services for formal documentation and questioning. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Rights-Impacting
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: Yes
+ **Description of how the agency is ensuring that this AI use case is compliant with Information Quality Act guidelines and OMB Memorandum M-19-15, if applicable**: In progress, working as part compliance extension.
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: Yes
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: N/A - The Agency does not own any of the data used to train, fine-tune, and/or evaluate performance of the model(s) used in this use case.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is missing or not available: No documentation exists regarding maintenance, composition, quality, or intended use of the training and evaluation data.
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: Yes – agency has access to source code, but it is not public.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: CBP Translate
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Other
+ **Whether communication regarding the provisioning of requested resources for the AI use case has been timely**: Working as part of compliance extension.
+ **Whether the agency requested an extension for this AI use case, in response to the CAIO’s request, of up to one year for the minimum requirements outlined in Section 5 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Yes – Agency requested an extension for this use case.
+ **Whether an AI impact assessment for the AI use case has been completed, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(A) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. This assessment should document at least the intended purpose for the AI and its expected benefits, the potential risks of using the AI, and the quality and appropriateness of the relevant data**: Planned or in-progress.
+ **Identification of the reasonably foreseeable risks from using the AI use case, to include the risk of inequitable outcomes for individuals. This can be informed by publicly known risks identified in similar use cases or contexts. Examples of such risks include at least physical injury, emotional/psychological injury, opportunity loss, economic loss, privacy loss, environmental impact, or civil rights and civil liberties impact**: Forthcoming. Office of Management and Budget (OMB) approved a compliance extension through November 30, 2025.