# Integrated Digital Environment
## DHS-2024-0038
_[Department of Homeland Security](<../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md>)_ (DHS) / CBP


+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The Integrated Digital Environment provides managers with a better understanding of end user workflows, most and least used applications, and opportunities for improvement. The AI/ML model applies to end user activity data (e.g., use of applications, flow between applications) to help CBP identify opportunities for more efficient or effective configuration of interfaces, use of resources, or development and deployment of CBP’s applications. It tailors analytics and insight generation to allow metrics gathering, usage recording/observation, dashboarding, and workflow experimentations/suggestions to support analysts utilizing the entire suite of agency and open-source data systems. It also customizes existing capabilities to allow the exact automations needed for agency applications and systems, creating an integrated digital environment for greater connectivity and security between applications, and better ability for CBP administrators to manage and optimize use of applications by end users.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This use case is inactive. Please see the "intended purpose and expected benefits" for a full description of this use case.
The Integrated Digital Environment provides managers with a better understanding of end user workflows, most and least used applications, and opportunities for improvement. The AI/ML model applies to end user activity data (e.g., use of applications, flow between applications) to help CBP identify opportunities for more efficient or effective configuration of interfaces, use of resources, or development and deployment of CBP’s applications. It tailors analytics and insight generation to allow metrics gathering, usage recording/observation, dashboarding, and workflow experimentations/suggestions to support analysts utilizing the entire suite of agency and open-source data systems. It also customizes existing capabilities to allow the exact automations needed for agency applications and systems, creating an integrated digital environment for greater connectivity and security between applications, and better ability for CBP administrators to manage and optimize use of applications by end users. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/1/2021
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 4/1/2022
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: 10/1/2024