# Translation and Transcription for Investigative Data
## DHS-2024-0113
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / ICE


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Law & Justice
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: HSI investigators often encounter data from various sources, including legal and administrative processes, enforcement actions, and open-source materials, in languages other than English. To unlock the value of this data, it must be translated into English before further analysis can be conducted. The Translation and Transcription Service leverages neural machine translation (NMT) models for text translation and automatic speech recognition (ASR) and deep neural network (DNN) models with normalization for voice-to-text transcription. This innovative approach enables users to quickly triage large datasets and identify key information relevant to investigations. Any data deemed critical for court proceedings is then submitted to certified human translators for final review, ensuring that government resources are allocated efficiently and only used for necessary translations and transcriptions.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The Translation and Transcription Service leverages neural machine translation (NMT) models for text translation and automatic speech recognition (ASR) and deep neural network (DNN) models with normalization for voice-to-text transcription.
Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) is a critical component of ICE, responsible for investigating a wide range of crimes that threaten national security, public safety, and the economy. With a mission to protect the United States from transnational crime and terrorism, HSI works to disrupt and dismantle complex organizations that engage in human trafficking, narcotics smuggling, cybercrime, and other illicit activities. To achieve this mission, HSI relies on advanced technologies and innovative solutions to analyze and process vast amounts of data, including audio and video evidence. HSI investigators often encounter data from various sources, including legal and administrative processes, enforcement actions, and open-source materials, in languages other than English. To unlock the value of this data, it must be translated into English before further analysis can be conducted. The Translation and Transcription Service leverages neural machine translation (NMT) models for text translation and automatic speech recognition (ASR) and deep neural network (DNN) models with normalization for voice-to-text transcription. This innovative approach enables users to quickly triage large datasets and identify key information relevant to investigations. Any data deemed critical for court proceedings is then submitted to certified human translators for final review, ensuring that government resources are allocated efficiently and only used for necessary translations and transcriptions. HSI uses this tool to generate leads, and further action is required by investigators and analysts as part of the full investigative process before any action is taken against an individual. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/1/2022
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 10/1/2022
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 2/1/2024
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: 70OCTD22FR00000002, 70OCTD22FR00000235, 70OCTD22FR00000009
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: AI models within the use case are not trained on agency data. Open-source models (i) Whisper is trained on 680K hours of multilingual and multitask supervised data collected from the web, (ii) No Language Left Behind (NLLB) is trained on a combination of publicly available datasets (additional information available in Section 5 of Meta’s NLLB whitepaper: https://research.facebook.com/file/585831413174038/No-Language-Left-Behind--Scaling-Human-Centered-Machine-Translation.pdf).
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation has been partially completed: Some documentation exists (detailing the composition and any statistical bias or measurement skew for training and evaluation purposes), but documentation took place within this use case’s development.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: None
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: Yes – agency has access to source code, but it is not public.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: RAVEn, Azure AI Translator
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: None: This use case does not re-use any internally developed tooling or managed infrastructure from any other AI development efforts within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Limited documentation for review: Some information regarding the model’s performance on specific benchmarks are available or have been shared with specific stakeholders within the agency.