# Commercial Generative AI for Image Generation
## DHS-2024-0082
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / DHS


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Creating visually appealing presentations using AI-driven design suggestions.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: DHS employees are permitted to use commercially available generative AI for image generation in day-to-day work. These tools are able to dynamically create graphical content through text prompts submitted by the user. They use Natural Language Processing (NLP), in conjunction with other Machine Learning techniques such as Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) and Diffusion Models, to produce images in a wide variety of contexts and styles.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Outputs may include pictures in different stylesk and types, depending on the inputs from the user.
DHS employees are permitted to use commercially available generative AI for image generation in day-to-day work. These tools can dynamically create graphical content through text prompts submitted by the user. They use Natural Language Processing (NLP), in conjunction with other machine learning techniques, such as Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) and Diffusion Models, to produce images in a wide variety of contexts and styles.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/24/2023
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 10/24/2023
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 10/24/2023
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: No – agency does not have access to source code.