# Silicon Valley Innovation Program (SVIP) Language Translator
## DHS-2024-0152
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / USCG


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: A handheld voice translator could be used to communicate the questioning of vessels in high-tension situations where a USCG vessel does not have a translator available, or they encounter different or multiple languages. In cases where a rescue is involved, being able to determine critical information such as the number of people aboard and status of life saving equipment is vital to commanders in their decision-making process. Once the USCG boarding team makes contact with the occupants of the boarded vessel, they must be able to communicate and give orders to the occupants of the vessel who may not speak English or in many cases speak multiple languages. The development of an offline language translator could enable accurate and swift translation of orders and directions which are critical to the safety and security of the boarding team and the occupants of the vessel.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Real time language translation.
USCG personnel often interact with individuals who speak little or no English, making it very challenging to quickly assess and respond to a variety of situations. To better execute these responsibilities, the USCG needs a portable language translator that can rapidly and effectively communicate with non-English speakers. USCG boarding teams need a handheld, universal language translator that works at the speed of natural language and operates in disconnected environments. A handheld voice translator could be used to communicate the questioning of vessels in high-tension situations where a USCG vessel does not have a translator available encounters different or multiple languages. In cases involving a rescue, being able to determine critical information such as the number of people aboard and the status of life-saving equipment is vital to commanders in their decision-making process. Once the USCG boarding team makes contact with the occupants of the boarded vessel, they must be able to communicate and give orders to the occupants who may not speak English or may speak multiple languages. The development of an offline language translator could enable accurate and swift translation of orders and directions, which are critical to the safety and security of the boarding team and the occupants of the vessel. This use case is funded by DHS (S&T), Silicon Valley Innovation Program (SVIP).
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: N/A - Active as R&D only.