# Babel
## DHS-2024-0002
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / CBP


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Law & Justice
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: CBP uses this tool to conduct targeted queries to aid CBP in open source research to monitor potential threats or dangers or identify travelers who may be subject to further inspection for violation of laws CBP is authorized to enforce or administer.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Babel utilizes AI modules for Text detection and translation as well as object and image recognition to provide analysts with possible matches to manually review in a single interface versus doing multiple manual queries. The output is not singly used for action or decision making and are used to identify additional Open Source or Social Media of a person or identify additional selectors (such as phone and emails) that are previously unknown to CBP and compared by an analyst against Government systems to identify additional derogatory information. These factors can often eliminate the traveler from additional screening.
Babel is a commercially procured tool that helps CBP compile social media and open-source information on travelers who may be subject to further screening for potential violation of laws that CBP is authorized to enforce or administer. The tool searches and aggregates open-source information related to manually entered queries, which CBP can review and utilize to identify potential threats to the United States. CBP uses this tool to conduct targeted queries to aid CBP in open source research to monitor potential threats or dangers, or to identify travelers who may be subject to further inspection for violation of relevant laws . Babel utilizes AI modules for text detection and translation as well as object and image recognition to provide analysts with possible matches to manually review in a single interface, versus doing multiple manual queries. The output is not singly used for action or decision making. Rather, it is used to identify additional open source or social media content for a person or to identify additional selectors (such as phone and emails) that are previously unknown to CBP. These selectors are then compared by an analyst against Government systems to identify any additional derogatory information. These factors often eliminate additional screening for the traveler. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Implementation and Assessment
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Rights-Impacting
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 8/29/2023
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 8/29/2023
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: 70B03C23F00001059
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: No
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: N/A - The Agency does not own any of the data used to train, fine-tune, and/or evaluate performance of the model(s) used in this use case.
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: No – agency does not have access to source code.
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: No
+ **Whether the agency requested an extension for this AI use case, in response to the CAIO’s request, of up to one year for the minimum requirements outlined in Section 5 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Yes – Agency requested an extension for this use case.
+ **Whether an AI impact assessment for the AI use case has been completed, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(A) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. This assessment should document at least the intended purpose for the AI and its expected benefits, the potential risks of using the AI, and the quality and appropriateness of the relevant data**: Planned or in-progress.
+ **Identification of the reasonably foreseeable risks from using the AI use case, to include the risk of inequitable outcomes for individuals. This can be informed by publicly known risks identified in similar use cases or contexts. Examples of such risks include at least physical injury, emotional/psychological injury, opportunity loss, economic loss, privacy loss, environmental impact, or civil rights and civil liberties impact**: Forthcoming. Office of Management and Budget (OMB) approved a compliance extension through November 30, 2025.