# One Health Threat Detection and Risk Assessment Platform (OH-TREADS) / Planner
## DHS-2024-0125
_[Department of Homeland Security](<../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md>)_ (DHS) / OHS


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Health & Medical
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Visuals will be created using a broad variety of data pulled from open-source, public, and non-public sources. AI/ML will make it possible to ingest data from a variety of digital formats, and translate it to usuable information into machine-readable data. The volume of data, and lack of clear data collection standards, requires AI to help merge streams with different data ontologies while facilitating data interoperability with mis-paired data sets. Neither activity is, or can be, practically performed by people. AI/ML will be further used in Planner to generate risk and predictive scores in addtion to displaying relevant information and analyses that help analysts understand health security threats and broadly monitor the health security landscape. AI/ML is meant to provide comprehensive situational awareness for health surveillance and public health response, with target capabilities that: enable global situational awareness of current and potential health risks from a One Health perspective; assist in early warning of health threats by location, facility, and species; aid in rapid identification of health threats at population, facility, and greater geographic resolution; and support data-driven decision making to prevent, mitigate, and respond to health threats.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The main AI system outputs will be anomaly detection following the translation of information into a structured, machine-readable datasets. AI/ML is then used for risk identification and disease prediction that are overlayed on a map and displayed with other wholistic visuals. The visuals and analytics can then be combined with critical infrastructure locations, resources, or capabilities (feeral, state, local, tribal, and territorial) to aid response and decision making.
The goal for this proof-of-concept project is to create wholistic visuals for health surveillance from relevant data and information sourced (open and non-public) from  International, Federal, State, Local, Tribal, and Territorial (IFSLTT) partners and stakeholders in interdependent sectors, including but not limited to the Food & Agriculture and Healthcare & Public Health sectors. By combining human, animal, plant, and environmental data, with critical infrastructure data, we aim to generate an integrated One Health data landscape that can aid decision making, early warning, and enhanced situational awareness. This would improve detection, prevention, and mitigation of emerging threats to health, food, and agriculture  (such as Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear (CBRN), climate, pests/vectors, invasive species, etc.) whether natural, intentional, or accidental, and promote health security, preparedness, and resilience across domains, disciplines, sectors, and stakeholders. OHTREADs will use a similar approach to Medical Intelligence (MedINT), employing a dashboard to present a telescoping global-to-local map that will highlight health incidents, cases, or other epidemiological relevant data that can be linked via geospatial or temporal factors. Upon clicking the map, the user will be able to achieve state or county level data visualization, or other relevant user-filtered information for active incidents involving pathogens/agents of interest, including risk and predictive transmission values. AI/ML makes this project possible by streamlining the pull of accessible data into machine-readable datasets from veterinary syndromic, clinical, diagnostic, or other surveillance data sets. AI/ML will also create the OH-TREADs/Planner visuals and allow for analytical interpretation. 

The volume of data, and lack of clear data collection standards, requires AI/ML to help merge streams with different data ontologies while facilitating data interoperability with mis-paired data sets. AI/ML will also be used to generate risk and predictive scores, displaying relevant information and analyses that help analysts understand health security threats and broadly monitor the health security landscape. This comprehensive situational awareness will support data-driven decision making to prevent, mitigate, and respond to health threats. 

The main AI system outputs will be anomaly detection following the translation of information into a structured, machine-readable datasets. AI/ML is then used for risk identification and disease prediction, which are overlayed on a map and displayed with other wholistic visuals. These visuals and analytics can be combined with critical infrastructure locations, resources, or capabilities (federal, state, local, tribal, and territorial) to aid response and decision making. 

OH-THREADS will use a combination of open source and public health data sets as well as animal health records.  It will not use individual medical data. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 8/1/2023