# Accessible Property Screening (APS) Checkpoint CT Prohibited Items (PI) Detection
## DHS-2024-0135
_Department of Homeland Security_ (DHS) / TSA


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Transportation
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: This AI helps airplane luggage checks by the TSA officers scanning bags to have a continuous always watching partner to alert them to anything suspicious. 

Currently, a Transportation Security Officer (TSO) who is assigned to every X-ray equipment at an airport checkpoint visually inspects each image. This officer resolves the system generated explosive alarms as well as visually inspecting the image for the presence of non-explosive prohibited items such as guns and sharp objects (see TSA Travel site).
TSA is working on developing new Artificial Intelligence/Machine Learning (AI/ML) algorithms to automate the search for the non-explosive prohibited items (e.g. guns, knives, etc.).  Once a threat is found, the algorithm displays bounding boxes around the suspect item for the operator to then investigate and adjudicate.  
These AI solutions benefit the public by providing a consistent and uninterrupted level of threat detection as an added layer of security. The ML algorithms allow the TSA officers to be more flexible and to better prioritize their attention on important items to improve security.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: AI system output is a set of 3-dimentional bounding boxes that is displayed on the X-ray image.  The bounding boxes are placed on top of objects or areas where the algorithm believes it has found a prohibited item (threat object).
This AI helps airplane luggage checks by the TSA officers scanning bags to have a continuous always watching partner to alert them to anything suspicious. Accessible Property Screening (APS) uses AI to identify both non-explosive threats and prohibited items in carry-on baggage as the bags pass through the Computed Tomography (CT) scanners at airports. The AI algorithms are trained to identify likely non-explosive threat and prohibited items through image segmentation and object recognition.  

Currently, Transportation Security Officers (TSOs) assigned to scanners at airport checkpoints visually inspect each image.  The TSOs resolve the system generated explosive alarms as well as visually inspect the image for the presence of non-explosive prohibited items such as guns and sharp objects. TSA is working on developing new AI and Machine Learning ML algorithms to automate the search for the non-explosive prohibited items (e.g. guns, knives, etc.). These AI solutions benefit the public by providing a consistent and uninterrupted level of threat detection as an added layer of security. The ML algorithms allow the TSOs to be more flexible and to better prioritize their attention on important items to improve security. 

AI system output is a set of 3-dimentional bounding boxes that is displayed on the X-ray image. The bounding boxes are placed on top of objects or areas where the algorithm believes it has found a prohibited item (threat object).
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Both
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/1/2019
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 10/1/2019
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: 70T04024F7573N010    - Smiths; 70T04023C7573N003   - SureScan (IDSS); 70T04023D7672N007   - Analogic
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: Yes
+ **Identification of the High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) that the AI use case supports**: Transportation Security Administration – DHS
+ **Identification of the specific public-facing service that the AI use case supports**: Completing TSA passenger screening
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: No
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: CT images of government scanned bags with threats, additionally have Stream of Commerce CT images collected at several airports. The images are in DICOS or vendor proprietary image format.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation has been partially completed: Some documentation exists (detailing the composition and any statistical bias or measurement skew for training and evaluation purposes), but documentation took place within this use case’s development.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: None
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: CheckPoint Property Screening System (CPSS)
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: No
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: No
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Other
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: None: This use case does not re-use any internally developed tooling or managed infrastructure from any other AI development efforts within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Limited documentation for review: Some information regarding the model’s performance on specific benchmarks are available or have been shared with specific stakeholders within the agency.