# Thermal Power Generation with Geoseismic IoI Detection and Classification
## DHS-2024-0018
_Department of Homeland Security_ (DHS) / CBP


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Law & Justice
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Utilize seismic sensor data to determine Item of Interest traffic in deployed locations. Increases situational awareness in austere environments and reduces need for battery replacement since the devices are self-charging.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Alert that an Item of Interest (IOI) is present and the confidence interval that the detected seismic activity is correctly classified.
The Thermal Power Generation and Geoseismic Item of Interest (IoI) detection and classification is able to convert surface heat fluctuations into electrical energy in order to power a seismic sensor. The data generated from the seismic sensor is then paired with a machine learning (ML) algorithm which is able to identify and classify Items of Interest (IoIs), noting the confidence interval that the detected seismic activity is correctly classified. Once an IoI is identified, users will receive alert notifications within their systems and determine the appropriate response in that area. Increases situational awareness in austere environments and reduces need for battery replacement since the devices are self-charging.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 3/17/2021