# Axon Capture Application
## DHS-2024-0145
_[Department of Homeland Security](<../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md>)_ (DHS) / TSA


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Law & Justice
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The Transportation Security Administration (TSA) uses body-worn cameras that incorporate artificial intelligence (AI) technologies as a part of the underlying software which transcribes and translates video footage. The technology provides rapid access to LEO and Investigative data, through transcription.  This will cut investigative processing time significantly, while also increasing accuracy.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The AI will transcript audio/video data and provide a printable artifact. The AI only provides recommendations the final usable data is reviewed and certified by TSA staff.
The Transportation Security Administration (TSA) uses body-worn cameras that incorporate AI as a part of the underlying software. The tool is designed to provide rapid access to law enforcement and investigative data to assist Law Enforcement Officers (LEOs) and those reviewing evidence to quickly sort and categorize data. Once electronic evidence/video footage is transferred to the tool, AI provides rapid transcription and translation of audio recordings. The embedded translation tools use machine learning to convert speech from one language to another. The AI will transcribe audio/video data and provide a printable artifact. The embedded AI also categorizes video evidence to allow reviewers to quickly identify areas within the video that may need to be redacted if the data needs to be released (e.g., drivers licenses, passport, the faces of youth, license plates, monitor screens, etc.) This will cut investigative processing time significantly, while also increasing accuracy.  The AI only provides recommendations the final usable data is reviewed and certified by TSA staff. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Rights-Impacting
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/1/2023