# Commercial Generative AI for Code Generation
## DHS-2024-0083
_[Department of Homeland Security](<../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md>)_ (DHS) / DHS


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Improving the quality of written communications using AI tools.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: DHS employees are permitted to use commercially available generative AI for code generation in day-to-day work. These tools are able to dynamically create usable code through plain-language prompts submitted by the user. They use Natural Language Processing (NLP) and Large Language Models (LLM) to produce code in many different programming languages and for a variety of tasks.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Outputs include useable code in different programming languages, depending on the inputs from the user.
DHS employees are permitted to use commercially available generative AI for code generation in day-to-day work. These tools can dynamically create usable code through plain-language prompts submitted by the user. They use Natural Language Processing (NLP) and Large Language Models (LLM) to produce code in many different programming languages and for a variety of tasks. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/24/2023
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 10/24/2023
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 10/24/2023
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: No – agency does not have access to source code.