# AI/LLM to generate testable synthetic data
## DHS-2024-0010
_[Department of Homeland Security](<../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md>)_ (DHS) / CBP


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The purpose of using AI to generate test data for trade partners is to create more realistic data for trade partners to use for testing their systems before releasing new ACE capabilities.  Currently there are many data issues where test data does not accurately reflect real production data which results in unrealistic failures when testing which result in wasted time and resources tracking down false positive errors during testing.  By providing trade partners with more realistic test data the expectation is that testing times will be shorter and enhancements and capabilities can be delivered quicker.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The AI capability would generate test data without PII or other trade sensitive data and allow for more accurate simulation of production data.
he Automated Commercial Environment (ACE) is the system the trade community reports imports and exports, and the government determines admissibility. This system is developed and maintained by the Cargo Systems Program Directorate (CSPD) within the Office of Information Technology (OIT) in Customs and Border Protection (CBP). ACE is a large system consisting of hundreds of applications with new capabilities added regularly. CSPD is seeking to incorporate AI to generate more realistic synthetic data without Personally Identifiable Information (PII) for trade partners to utilize in testing new data formats and APIs before releasing new ACE capabilities.  By using synthetic data, the system does not risk any PII spillages. Currently, there are many data issues where test data does not accurately reflect real production data, which results in unrealistic failures when testing and wasted time and resources tracking down false positive errors during testing.  By providing trade partners with more realistic test data, the expectation is that testing times will be shorter and enhancements and capabilities can be delivered quicker., The AI capability would generate test data without PII or other trade sensitive data and allow for more accurate simulation of production data.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 11/1/2023