# Automated Name and Date of Birth (DOB) Harvesting from Existing Records
## DHS-2024-0176
_[Department of Homeland Security](<../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md>)_ (DHS) / USCIS


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: To reduce the amount of adjudicative time spent manually harvesting aliases and dates of birth (DOBs) from identity history summary (idHS) report attached to the ELIS case as part of the Manual Name Harvesting Task during case processing.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Eliminates need for manual review by extracting unique names and DOBs from IdHS documents and when names/DOBs already in ELIS, ANH will not suggest any names.This is still a human in the loop process. The ELIS user performing MNH tasks prompted to make a decision if the suggested names and DOBs are related to case hence are able to accept/reject the suggestions.
Automated Name and Date of Birth (DOB) Harvesting is being developed to reduce the amount of adjudicative time spent manually harvesting aliases and DOBs from Identity History Responses (IdHS) text. The use case output draws from FBI Background Check System (BCS) source information and is provided to USCIS officers to consider during case processing. For aliases, this solution uses a named-entity recognition (NER) model trained to understand the specific context around where aliases appear—meaning it’s effective at locating true aliases, while at the same time avoiding other places where proper names may exist but are not aliases (e.g., county or street names). For DOBs, this solution uses pattern matching and conditional logic to harvest valid birth dates, while weeding out obvious placeholders and other non-birth dates found within the IdHS text.  This use case has been in production since 2022 and is enabled only for N400. The solution was developed as a Python library, and the encasing Flask application runs on Amazon EKS. Its primary function is to predict where aliases and dates of birth appear within unstructured IdHS text.  It uses a named-entity recognition (NER) model, trained using Spark NLP with a TensorFlow back end on thousands of systematically labeled IdHS records, and word-level embeddings. 

This use case reduces the amount of adjudicative time spent manually harvesting aliases and dates of birth (DOBs) from identity history summary (IdHS) report attached to the ELIS case as part of the Manual Name Harvesting Task during case processing. 

Eliminates need for manual review by extracting unique names and DOBs from IdHS documents and when names/DOBs are already in ELIS, ANH will not suggest any names. This is still a human in the loop process. The ELIS user performing MNH tasks is prompted to decide if the suggested names and DOBs are related to case hence can accept/reject the suggestions. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 7/10/2020
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 7/10/2020
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 6/27/2022
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: 70SBUR23F00000120
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: 1. To train this deep learning model, we’ve gathered the text from about 8,000 IdHS records.
2. Typically, annotation of these entities would be done by hand. But in this case, we’re able to leverage the manual name harvesting that’s already been completed by ELIS users and therefore systematically tag our training data.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is complete: Documentation exists regarding the maintenance, composition, quality, and intended use of the training and evaluation data, as well as any statistical bias across model features and protected groups.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: None
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: Yes – agency has access to source code, but it is not public.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: ELIS
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: None: This use case does not re-use any internally developed tooling or managed infrastructure from any other AI development efforts within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Documentation has been developed: Complete documentation detailing model performance across a range of benchmarks, architecture, relevant features and information regarding the appropriate use of the model for predictive tasks has been created.