# I-539 approval prediction
## DHS-2024-0172
_Department of Homeland Security_ (DHS) / USCIS


+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Builds models that identify lists of topics and documents that are related to each topic. Topic modeling provides methods for automatically organizing, understanding, searching, and summarizing text data. It can help with the following: discovering hidden themes in the collection. classifying the documents into the discovered themes.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This use case is inactive. Please see the "intended purpose and expected benefits" for a full description of this use case.
Builds models that identify lists of topics and documents that are related to each topic. Topic modeling provides methods for automatically organizing, understanding, searching, and summarizing text data. It can help with the following: discovering hidden themes in the collection. classifying the documents into the discovered themes.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 1/1/2021
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 1/1/2021
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: 6/1/2021