# Autonomous Aerostat
## DHS-2024-0035
_Department of Homeland Security_ (DHS) / CBP


+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Aerostat capability that uses three tethers instead of the traditional single tether, coupled with advanced weather sensors, analytic capabilities, and powerful winches. The AI/ML model is used to detect the need to launch and land based on weather. It also leverages AI and robotics to autonomously launch and recover the aerostat during inclement weather events without the need for on-site staffing, allowing the aerostat to operate autonomously, saving time and manpower.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This use case is inactive. Please see the "intended purpose and expected benefits" for a full description of this use case.
Aerostat capability that uses three tethers instead of the traditional single tether, coupled with advanced weather sensors, analytic capabilities, and powerful winches. The AI/ML model is used to detect the need to launch and land based on weather. It also leverages AI and robotics to autonomously launch and recover the aerostat during inclement weather events without the need for on-site staffing, allowing the aerostat to operate autonomously, saving time and manpower. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/1/2019
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 10/1/2018
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: 10/1/2024