# Vessel Detection
## DHS-2024-0030
_[Department of Homeland Security](<../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md>)_ (DHS) / CBP


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Law & Justice
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Current surveillance technology does not have machine assisted classification of targets on screen, making it harder for human operators to decipher legitimate from illegitimate traffic in times of high volumes of legitimate traffic.  Project intends to support human operator identification and classification of potential illicit vessels.  Benefits would be more efficient detection and resolution of IOIs, especially during times of high-volume traffic.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Alerts and tracks of detected Items of Interest (IOI)s to human operator workstations.
Integrated technologies and analytics enhance maritime detection and the sensor network. Machine-assisted and AI-enhanced detection and tracking allow for improved illicit vessel detection in areas with high volumes of legitimate trade and recreational water vessel traffic by increasing situational awareness and responsiveness to threats.  Vessel Detection allows an agent to set a search area with criteria (e.g., people, drones, vehicles) and transmit those criteria to the sensors.  Images detected by the sensors are automatically recognized using Artificial Intelligence. The AI algorithms filter, detect, and recognize objects, dividing them into Items of Interest (IoI) and other objects.  Detections of IoI are shared with other detection systems while detections of other objects (e.g., animals) are not shared. IoIs can be tracked and maintained across multiple sensors seamlessly. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/1/2021