# Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) Alerting Models
## DHS-2024-0068
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / CISA


+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: CISA Threat hunting and Security Operations Center (SOC) analysts are provided with terabytes of log data per day. Manually developed detection alerts and automatic correlation in Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) tools are common, but not comprehensive. Many cyber attacks can be probabilistically determined given sufficient training data and time. Analysts use automated tooling to further refine the alerts they receive and produce additional automated alerts based on aggregated information and curated subject matter expertise. This can be further supported by the development of AI-assisted agents. Analysts can interact with such agents in a conversational manner to produce the input needed for complex search queries for behaviors or patterns in traffic that the agent then rapidly creates. This tooling allows CISA analysts to comb through security data in an automated fashion with mathematically and probabilistically based models to ensure high-fidelity anomalies are detected in a timely manner.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This use case is inactive. Please see the "intended purpose and expected benefits" for a full description of this use case.
CISA Threat hunting and Security Operations Center (SOC) analysts are provided with terabytes of log data per day. Manually developed detection alerts and automatic correlation in Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) tools are common, but not comprehensive. Many cyber attacks can be probabilistically determined given sufficient training data and time. Analysts use automated tooling to further refine the alerts they receive and produce additional automated alerts based on aggregated information and curated subject matter expertise. This can be further supported by the development of AI-assisted agents. Analysts can interact with such agents in a conversational manner to produce the input needed for complex search queries for behaviors or patterns in traffic that the agent then rapidly creates. This tooling allows CISA analysts to comb through security data in an automated fashion with mathematically and probabilistically based models to ensure high-fidelity anomalies are detected in a timely manner. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/1/2022
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: N/A -Consolidated into another use case.