# Source Code Development Tool
## DHS-2024-0025
_[Department of Homeland Security](<../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md>)_ (DHS) / CBP


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: This capability will enable end users to develop software faster and more efficiently through the use of a generative artificial intelligence coding assistant.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This capability will provide functional software code for end users.
Current software development usually requires many hours of human coding labor.  This capability accelerates software development by providing a generative artificial intelligence coding assistant.  The coding assistant is based on large language models (LLM) and coding foundation models.  End users may prompt the assistant to code, refine and complete a software project through natural language commands and queries. This capability will enable end users to develop software faster and more efficiently through the use of a generative artificial intelligence (GenAI) coding assistant and which will create functional software code for end users.  
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 11/1/2024