# Relocatable Multi-Sensor System
## DHS-2024-0009
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / CBP


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Law & Justice
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The system uses advanced sensor technology to differentiate valid items of interest (IOI), such as unmanned aircraft systems and humans, from other detections such as animals or other environmental objects. By integrating radar and other sensor data, the system filters out false alarms, ensuring more accurate identification of potential IOI. This capability enhances CBP's ability to focus on legitimate risks while minimizing the time spent on non-threatening activities, improving operational efficiency at border and security checkpoints.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The outputs  include real-time data identifying and categorizing potential items of interests, while filtering out false or non-relevant items of interest like animals. These outputs are used to provide situational awareness and support decision-making for CBP personnel.
MDF correlates sensor data of different types into an integrated operational picture, allowing the user to see simplified, single entity tracks in highly complex scenarios.  The system prioritizes items of interest (IOI) automatically based upon user intent and automatically cues sensors.  MDF also classifies detections into groups it is trained for, including aircraft, humans, and vehicles.  This does not include any nexus to biometric detection or image processing. The system uses advanced sensor technology to differentiate valid IOI, such as unmanned aircraft systems and humans, from other detections such as animals or environmental objects. By integrating radar and other sensor data, the system filters out false alarms, ensuring more accurate identification of potential IOI. This capability enhances CBP's ability to focus on legitimate risks while minimizing the time spent on non-threatening activities, improving operational efficiency at border and security checkpoints. The outputs include real-time data identifying and categorizing potential IOI while filtering out false or non-relevant IOI like animals. These outputs are used to provide situational awareness and support decision-making for CBP personnel. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 5/24/2023