# OTA Automated Passenger Screening Gate System
## DHS-2024-0144
_Department of Homeland Security_ (DHS) / TSA


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Transportation
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The purpose is to manage passenger flow while reducing human interaction by using AI to assess body positioning and automatically initiate the screening process when the passenger is in the optimum position.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The AI system initiates an AIT scan when the passenger is in the optimum position. Depending on the results of the AIT scan, the passenger would be routed either for additional screening or to the re-composure area to claim their accessible property and transit into the sterile area.
The automated passenger screening system regulates and expedites traveler screening by guiding passengers though the queue to the Advanced Imaging Technology (AIT) scanners. The system uses machine vision, a technology that enables computers to interpret and understand visual information, to assess body positioning and automatically initiate the screening process when the passenger is in the optimum position. The purpose is to manage passenger flow while reducing human interaction by using AI to assess body positioning and automatically initiate the screening process when the passenger is in the optimum position. The AI system initiates an AIT scan when the passenger is in the optimum position. Depending on the results of the AIT scan, the passenger would be routed either for additional screening or to the re-composure area to claim their accessible property and transit into the sterile area.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 8/1/2024