# Computer Vision for Aerial Detection of Land and Open Water Items of Interest
## DHS-2024-0015
_Department of Homeland Security_ (DHS) / CBP


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Law & Justice
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: This capability will automate cross-border maritime threat detection, classification and tracking, enabling more efficient maritime border security surveillance.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This capabilty will provide alerts and tracks of detected/classified maritime threats to system operators on a workstation user interface.
Current detection, classification (determining intention and/or threat level of each detection), and tracking of potential, cross-border maritime threats mostly rely on human operators monitoring radar tracks on a screen and scanning the maritime environment with surveillance camera systems.  This capability leverages high fidelity cameras on airborne platforms along with computer vision machine learning (CV/ML) models to automate the detection, classification, and tracking of potential cross-border maritime threats. This capability will automate cross-border maritime threat detection, classification and tracking by providing alerts and tracks of detected/classified maritime threats to system operators, enabling more efficient maritime border security surveillance. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 1/1/2024