# Commercial Generative AI for Text Generation (AI Chatbot)
## DHS-2024-0081
_[Department of Homeland Security](<../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md>)_ (DHS) / DHS


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Improving the quality of written communications using AI tools.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: DHS employees are permitted to use commercially available generative AI for text generation in day-to-day work. Commonly referred to as AI Chatbots, these tools are able to dynamically create written content through text prompts submitted by the user. They use Natural Language Processing (NLP) and Large Language Models (LLM) to produce natural sounding language in a wide variety of contexts and styles.

Approved applications of commercial Gen AI tools to DHS business include generating first drafts of documents that a human would subsequently review, conducting and synthesizing research on open-source information, and developing briefing materials or preparing for meetings and events.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Outputs may include writing, answers to question, and search results, depending on inputs from the user.
DHS employees are permitted to use commercially available generative AI for text generation in day-to-day work. Commonly referred to as AI chatbots, these tools can dynamically create written content through text prompts submitted by the user. They use Natural Language Processing (NLP) and Large Language Models (LLM) to produce natural sounding language in a wide variety of contexts and styles. Approved applications of commercial generative AI tools for DHS business include generating first drafts of documents that a human would subsequently review, conducting and synthesizing research on open-source information, and developing briefing materials or preparing for meetings and events. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/24/2023
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 10/24/2023
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 10/24/2023
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: No – agency does not have access to source code.