# Burlington Finance Center Voice Bot
## DHS-2024-0102
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / ICE


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Identify and verify the caller, retrieve the status of the bond, and share the bond status with the requester and/or answer administrative FAQs.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: It will use Natural Language Understanding (NLU)/Natural Language Processing (NLP) to perform voice-to-text and text-to-voice translations, giving it the ability to recognize voices and meaning.  The BFC Voice Bot will be deterministic and will not use Generative AI.
The Bond Management Information System (BMIS) supports the lifecycle of an immigration bond, from posting to disposal.  The Burlington Finance Center (BFC) Voice Bot will be a public-facing multilingual chatbot that uses voice recognition to understand and respond to suer inquiries over the phone. It employes Natural Language Understanding (NLU) and Natural Language Processing (NLP) for voice-to-text and text-to-voice translations, enabling it to recognize voices and interpret meaning.  The BFC Voice Bot will be deterministic and will not use Generative AI.  The BFC Voice Bot will identify and verify callers, providing or retrieving and sharing bond status information. It will support English, Spanish, and French/Haitian Creole.  The current bond inquiry workflow is entirely manual; automating the process will improve efficiency and reduce the burden of the Bonds Management team. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 9/3/2024