# Fivecast ONYX
## DHS-2024-0003
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / CBP


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Law & Justice
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The system enhances CBP's capability to monitor, analyze, and assess threats related to border security by processing vast amounts of open-source data, CBP aims to detect potential risks, monitor emerging trends, and uncover connections between individuals, organizations, or networks involved in illegal activities such as human trafficking, smuggling, or terrorism. Thereby streamlining operations and bolster security measures while maintaining a proactive approach to emerging threats
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The system  aggregates vast amounts of publicly and commercially available data from diverse sources, such as social media, news streams, company records, and even the dark web, to provide insights on potential threats and risks, that can be used as actionable intelligence reports, risk assessments, and alerts that support CBP personnel  in real-time decision-making and long-term strategic planning.
Fivecast is a technology platform accessed through an internet-based user interface that provides insight into a variety of social media platforms including, but not limited to, Facebook, Instagram, Telegram, and Twitter.  Fivecast analyzes the strength of connections between social media users and collects both media and activity information from targeted profiles. It also enables the identification of usernames and profiles using individual names, telephone numbers, age, email address, and location.  Fivecast has proven to be one of the most valuable tools in the OSINT technology stack as it enables advanced search, collection, and analysis of publicly available information through a single user interface, facilitating the collection of information regarding people, places, and things across social media platforms, as well as general information held on the surface, deep, and dark web to inform situational awareness. CBP uses Fivecast ONYX to analyze open-source data, including social media and other public platforms, to identify potential threats, monitor illegal activities, and assess risks to national security.  The system enhances CBP's capability to monitor, analyze, and assess threats related to border security by processing vast amounts of open-source data. CBP aims to detect potential risks, monitor emerging trends, and uncover connections between individuals, organizations, or networks involved in illegal activities such as human trafficking, smuggling, or terrorism, thereby streamlining operations and bolstering security measures.  
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Implementation and Assessment
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Rights-Impacting
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 8/29/2023
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 8/29/2023
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: 12/31/2024
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: No
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: N/A - The Agency does not own any of the data used to train, fine-tune, and/or evaluate performance of the model(s) used in this use case.
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: No – agency does not have access to source code.
+ **Whether the agency requested an extension for this AI use case, in response to the CAIO’s request, of up to one year for the minimum requirements outlined in Section 5 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Yes – Agency requested an extension for this use case.
+ **Whether an AI impact assessment for the AI use case has been completed, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(A) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. This assessment should document at least the intended purpose for the AI and its expected benefits, the potential risks of using the AI, and the quality and appropriateness of the relevant data**: Planned or in-progress.
+ **Identification of the reasonably foreseeable risks from using the AI use case, to include the risk of inequitable outcomes for individuals. This can be informed by publicly known risks identified in similar use cases or contexts. Examples of such risks include at least physical injury, emotional/psychological injury, opportunity loss, economic loss, privacy loss, environmental impact, or civil rights and civil liberties impact**: Forthcoming. Office of Management and Budget (OMB) approved a compliance extension through November 30, 2025.