# Machine Learning Analysis Applied to Cyber Threat Hunt Data
## DHS-2024-0142
_Department of Homeland Security_ (DHS) / TSA


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Cyber threat hunts typically involve a vast amount of data. Machine learning models can quickly and efficiently process this data as well as more effectively identify anomalous activity than humans. 
This could improve the efficiency and quality of cyber threat hunts by detecting suspicious behavior more quickly and increasing the amount of data that can be analyzed during a hunt.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Currently it is a list of potential anomalies or outliers within the system, but development is still ongoing.
Cyber threat hunts typically involve a vast amount of data. Machine learning models can quickly and efficiently process this data as well as more effectively identify anomalous activity than humans. This could improve the efficiency and quality of cyber threat hunts by detecting suspicious behavior more quickly and increasing the amount of data that can be analyzed during a hunt.  TSA is using machine learning (ML) models to analyze large volumes of TSA network log data from various systems to detect patterns more quickly and accurately than humans, aiding in more rapid response to potential threats. This tool currently detects anomalies or outliers within the collected data and could be expanded to include classification and categorization in the future. The analysis is run to explore the data and identify items for an analyst to analyze further. The ML output is a list of results with details including why that result was identified by the model and the statistical likelihood that it is a positive result. An analyst would then review these results and determine if any of the patterns might be associated with unusual cyber activity. The analyst then continues to analyze further as during normal cyber threat hunt operations. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 1/1/2024
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 2/1/2024
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: GS-35F-525GA
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: No
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: Data collected from TSA-owned assets through cyber threat hunt operations.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation has been partially completed: Some documentation exists (detailing the composition and any statistical bias or measurement skew for training and evaluation purposes), but documentation took place within this use case’s development.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: None
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: System name is operationally sensitive.
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: No
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: No
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Other
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: Re-use production level code from a different use-case: This use case re-uses production level code and/or internally developed code libraries for model development from existing AI systems or repositories inside the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: No documentation is available: No documentation detailing model performance metrics, model architecture, features and intended use of the models have been created or are currently accessible to other data science teams within the agency.