# Biometrics Enrollment Tool (BET) Fingerprint Quality Score
## DHS-2024-0163
_Department of Homeland Security_ (DHS) / USCIS


+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Duplicate with BET Maximization. The Biometrics Enrollment Tool (BET) team has incorporated the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Fingerprint Image Quality 2 (NFIQ2) algorithm (a trained machine learning algorithm) for scoring fingerprints (https://www.nist.gov/services-resources/software/nfiq-2) into the BET application. This algorithm takes a fingerprint image and assigns a score between 0 and 100, with 100 indicating the best quality fingerprint image that could be obtained. The higher the score, the more likely it is that the fingerprint will match when captured again.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This use case is inactive. Please see the "intended purpose and expected benefits" for a full description of this use case.
Duplicate with BET Maximization. The Biometrics Enrollment Tool (BET) team has incorporated the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Fingerprint Image Quality 2 (NFIQ2) algorithm (a trained machine learning algorithm) for scoring fingerprints (https://www.nist.gov/services-resources/software/nfiq-2) into the BET application. This algorithm takes a fingerprint image and assigns a score between 0 and 100, with 100 indicating the best quality fingerprint image that could be obtained. The higher the score, the more likely it is that the fingerprint will match when captured again. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: N/A -Consolidated into another use case.