# Malware Reverse Engineering
## DHS-2024-0066
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / CISA


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: This use case delivers improved internal government tools for reverse engineering of malware and speeding the development of cyber threat intelligence that can be shared across the government and with CISA partners.  Threat actors can leverage the same malware for long periods of time, so having the ability to improve analysis and generation of shareable cyber threat intelligence forces threat actors to spend more resources generating new malware. Machine learning and other analytical tools are leveraged to guide malware analysts and automate elements of the manual reverse engineering process. Automation of tasks such as triage and indicator extraction allow threat hunting analysts to meet high demand and focus more on adversary response.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: A report is generated from malware samples submitted to the analysis pipeline that is then used by human analysts to facilitate the malware triage process. Additional recommendations are displayed via plugins to reverse engineering tools.
CISA receives information about computer security vulnerabilities and threats in the form of malicious code samples (malware) from its federal civilian and critical infrastructure partners. These malware samples require manual reverse engineering to find actionable insights, such as indications of potential compromise or adversary-operated command and control. This AI capability uses deep learning to assist CISA analysts with understanding the content of malware samples, automating tasks such as triage and indicator extraction. This improves internal government tools for reverse engineering of malware, speeding the development of cyber threat intelligence that can be shared across the government and with CISA partners.  

By enhancing the analysis and generation of shareable cyber threat intelligence, CISA forces threat actors to spend more resources generating new malware.  A report is generated from malware samples submitted to the analysis pipeline, which is then used by human analysts to facilitate the malware triage process. Additional recommendations are displayed via plugins to reverse engineering tools. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/1/2022