# Underwater ROV
## DHS-2024-0019
_[Department of Homeland Security](<../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md>)_ (DHS) / CBP


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Law & Justice
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The expected benefit of the system is that users will be able to more quickly identify potential threats and contraband on maritime vessels. This identification will allow for the streamlined investigations of a ship's hull without the need for a dive team.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The AI system outputs provide an informed decision on if a potential threat or contraband is present on a maritime vessel hull.
The Underwater Remotely Operated Vehicle (ROV) is a submersible drone capable of conducting inspections of maritime vessel hulls to detect underwater threats and contraband. The systems utilize supervised machine learning (ML) to assist in the identification of items of interest on a maritime ship’s hull. Outputs from the system will be the identification of threats and contraband. Users will use the output, an informed decision on if a potential threat or contraband is present on a hull, to determine if additional actions are required, The expected benefit of the system is that users will be able to identify potential threats and contraband on maritime vessels quickly. This identification will allow for the streamlined investigations of a ship’s hull without the need for a dive team. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 1/1/2024