# AI for Software Delivery
## DHS-2024-0016
_[Department of Homeland Security](<../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md>)_ (DHS) / CBP


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The initial use case is to integrate AI into the development process to assist developers with code reviews so that when a request to modify code in a baseline is made by a developer AI is integrated into the continuous integration pipeline to examine the code for potential problems and inefficiencies.  By reducing code review time and identifying potential issues earlier in the development CSPD expects to reduce the time to deliver changes and increase initial software quality.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The AI model will identify coding errors and recommend fixes as well as make recommendations for improvement and optimization which the request reviewer will assess and determine what, if any, changes need to be made before the code is approved to go into the baseline.
The Automated Commercial Environment (ACE) is the system through which the trade community reports imports and exports, and the government determines admissibility. This system is developed and maintained by the Cargo Systems Program Directorate (CSPD) within the Office of Information Technology (OIT) in Customs and Border Protection (CBP). ACE is a large system consisting of hundreds of applications with new capabilities added regularly. CSPD is seeking to incorporate AI into the software delivery process to reduce delivery time as well as increase the quality and security of the ACE system. The initial use case is to integrate AI into the development process to assist developers with code reviews so that when a request to modify code in a baseline is made by a developer AI is integrated into the continuous integration pipeline to examine the code for potential problems and inefficiencies.  The AI model will identify coding errors and recommend fixes as well as make recommendations for improvement and optimization which the request reviewer will assess and determine what, if any, changes need to be made before the code is approved to go into the baseline. By reducing code review time and identifying potential issues earlier in the development CSPD expects to reduce the time to deliver changes and increase initial software quality. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 11/1/2023