# Walk-Through Metal Detector (WTMD) Alternative Automated Target Recognition (ATR) Developments
## DHS-2024-0136
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / TSA


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Transportation
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Artificial intelligence (AI)-enhanced Millimeter wave (mmWave) detectors are used as an alternative to Walk-Through Metal Detectors (WTMDs) for passenger screening to detect both metallic and non-metallic threats and prohibited items on passengers at the security checkpoint. These detectors are an improvement over traditional walk-through metal detectors and provide increased security and a better passenger experience.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The AI outputs target coordinates to the operator viewing station which is viewed as a bounding box on a representative human figure.
AI-enhanced Millimeter wave (mmWave) detectors are used as an alternative to Walk-Through Metal Detectors (WTMDs) for passenger screening to detect both metallic and non-metallic threats and prohibited items on passengers at the security checkpoint. These detectors are an improvement over traditional walk-through metal detectors and provide increased security and a better passenger experience. mmWave body scanners use safer, skin-sensitive, non-ionizing radiation to find concealed objects using pre-defined rule-based and deep learning algorithms to identify prohibited items and relay that information to the Transportation Safety Officers (TSOs) on duty at the checkpoint. An mmWave Automated Target Recognition (ATR) algorithm uses AI and machine learning (ML) to detect anomalies, or targets, on the body and reproduces the threat location on a representative human figure using a coordinate transform function (CTF) for TSO resolution. ATR algorithms are trained and then deployed. Operational systems do not continue to collect images or train the algorithm. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Both
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 9/30/2021
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 9/30/2021
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: 70T04024C7573N002
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: Yes
+ **Identification of the High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) that the AI use case supports**: Transportation Security Administration – DHS
+ **Identification of the specific public-facing service that the AI use case supports**: Completing TSA passenger screening
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: No
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: TSA owns AIT image scans which are used for algorithm development. The scans contain threat images and are potentially sensitive.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is missing or not available: No documentation exists regarding maintenance, composition, quality, or intended use of the training and evaluation data.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: None
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: No
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: More than 12 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: No
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Other
+ **Whether communication regarding the provisioning of requested resources for the AI use case has been timely**: Not yet provisioned.
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Other
+ **Explanation for whether communication regarding the provisioning of requested resources for the AI use case has been timely**: Not yet provisioned.
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: Use of existing data platforms: This use case is being developed on existing enterprise data and analytics platforms within the agency rather than procuring additional platforms or SaaS to operate.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: No documentation is available: No documentation detailing model performance metrics, model architecture, features and intended use of the models have been created or are currently accessible to other data science teams within the agency.