# Title III Semantic Search and Summarization for Translated Content
## DHS-2024-0100
_[Department of Homeland Security](<../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md>)_ (DHS) / ICE


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Law & Justice
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The Title III Semantic Search and Summarization functionality will augment translation and transcription services by extracting relevant data using machine learning and natural language processing for correlation and semantic search. Results can then be summarized using a large language model, giving users a tool to target relevant data only. This capability accelerates investigative analysis by rapidly identifying persons of interest, surfacing trends, and detecting networks or fraud, saving hundreds of man hours in manual analysis. HSI will use this tool to generate leads, and further action will be required by investigators and analysts as part of the full investigative process before any action is taken against an individual.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This will allow for the summarization of large data sets using a large language model, giving users a tool to target relevant data only.
Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) is a critical component of ICE, responsible for investigating a wide range of crimes that threaten national security, public safety, and the economy. With a mission to protect the United States from transnational crime and terrorism, HSI works to disrupt and dismantle complex organizations that engage in human trafficking, narcotics smuggling, cybercrime, and other illicit activities. During an investigation, HSI collects large volumes of legally obtained evidentiary data, often in languages other than English. Once this data has been translated using translation and transcription services, agents and analysts need a better way to search through the vast amounts of data. The Title III Semantic Search and Summarization functionality will augment translation and transcription services by extracting relevant data using machine learning (ML) and Natural Language Processing (NLP) for correlation and semantic search. Results can then be summarized using a Large Language Model (LLM), giving users a tool to target relevant data only. This capability accelerates investigative analysis by rapidly identifying persons of interest, surfacing trends, and detecting networks or fraud, saving hundreds of hours in manual analysis. HSI will use this tool to generate leads, and further action will be required by investigators and analysts as part of the full investigative process before any action is taken against an individual. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 4/12/2022