# Advanced Network Anomaly Alerting
## DHS-2024-0070
_[Department of Homeland Security](<../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md>)_ (DHS) / CISA


+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Threat hunting and Security Operations Center (SOC) analysts are provided terabytes per day of data from the National Cybersecurity Protection System's (NCPS’s) Einstein sensors. Manually developed detection alerts and automatic correlation via off the shelf tooling are common, but not comprehensive. Many network attacks can be probabilistically determined given sufficient training data and time. Analysts use automated tooling to further refine the alerts they receive and produce additional automated alerts based on aggregated information and backed in subject matter expertise. This tooling allows CISA analysts the capabilities to comb through data in an automated fashion with mathematically and probabilistically based models to ensure high-fidelity anomalies are detected in a timely manner.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This use case is inactive. Please see the "intended purpose and expected benefits" for a full description of this use case.
Threat hunting and Security Operations Center (SOC) analysts are provided terabytes per day of data from the National Cybersecurity Protection System's (NCPS’s) Einstein sensors. Manually developed detection alerts and automatic correlation via off the shelf tooling are common, but not comprehensive. Many network attacks can be probabilistically determined given sufficient training data and time. Analysts use automated tooling to further refine the alerts they receive and produce additional automated alerts based on aggregated information and backed in subject matter expertise. This tooling allows CISA analysts the capabilities to comb through data in an automated fashion with mathematically and probabilistically based models to ensure high-fidelity anomalies are detected in a timely manner. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/1/2022
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: N/A -Consolidated into another use case.