# Use of technology to identify proof of life
## DHS-2024-0037
_[Department of Homeland Security](<../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md>)_ (DHS) / CBP


+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Mobile applications rely on product for liveness detection to avoid use of spoofed or fraudulent images by bad actors. Being able to accept submitted data with confidence that the submitting individual is who and where they claim to be is critical to the functionality of the app within the agency environment.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This use case is inactive. Please see the "intended purpose and expected benefits" for a full description of this use case.
Mobile applications rely on product for liveness detection to avoid use of spoofed or fraudulent images by bad actors. Being able to accept submitted data with confidence that the submitting individual is who and where they claim to be is critical to the functionality of the app within the agency environment.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/1/2020
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 10/1/2020
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 10/1/2023
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: N/A -Consolidated into another use case.