# ICE Mobile Check-in Application
## DHS-2024-0109
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / ICE


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Law & Justice
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The Check-In App is an opt-in capability that allows for low-risk adult noncitizens to securely check-in via an ICE Verified user account, verify their identity, identify their location, and satisfy check-in requirements thereby reducing in-person office visits and reducing manual processing work. AI-enabled capabilities within the ICE Check-In application give ICE the ability to scale its interactions to a greater number of noncitizens and reduce in-office presence at ICE facilities.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: AI/ML is used for this face detection and tracking. Once captured, the photo is verified with a 1:1 verification using the CBP Traveler Verification Service. Verification of all requirements will satisfy check-in requirements. A failed verification will result in a review by an officer. The officer can request the user try again or request the user use the default in-person check-in process by making an appointment with their local ICE office.
ICE is authorized under the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) to set terms of supervision on non-citizens who are in immigration proceedings or who have completed proceedings and were not granted a status or relief of any kind. The ICE Check-In application is a mobile application where low-risk adult noncitizens can check-in using location and photo capabilities on user owned mobile devices (iOS and Android application stores). The Check-In App is an opt-in capability that allows for low-risk adult noncitizens to securely check-in via an ICE Verified user account, verify their identity, identify their location, and satisfy check-in requirements thereby reducing in-person office visits and reducing manual processing work. The app requires users to follow several randomly prompted actions and leverages programmatic logic-based heuristics to infer liveness based upon facial-tracking feedback from user interaction. AI and machine learning (ML) are used for this face detection and tracking. Once captured, the photo is verified with a 1:1 verification using the Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Traveler Verification Service. Verification of all requirements will satisfy check-in requirements. A failed verification will result in a review by an officer. The officer can request the user try again or request the user use the default in-person check-in process by making an appointment with their local ICE office. AI-enabled capabilities within the ICE Check-In application give ICE the ability to scale its interactions to a greater number of noncitizens and reduce in-office presence at ICE facilities. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Rights-Impacting
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 7/10/2023
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 10/2/2023
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 11/30/2023
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: 70CTD022D00000010
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: N/A - The Agency does not own any of the data used to train, fine-tune, and/or evaluate performance of the model(s) used in this use case.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is missing or not available: No documentation exists regarding maintenance, composition, quality, or intended use of the training and evaluation data.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: None
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: Yes – agency has access to source code, but it is not public.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: ICE Portal
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: 6-12 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: Re-use production level code from a different use-case: This use case re-uses production level code and/or internally developed code libraries for model development from existing AI systems or repositories inside the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Limited documentation for review: Some information regarding the model’s performance on specific benchmarks are available or have been shared with specific stakeholders within the agency.
+ **Whether the agency requested an extension for this AI use case, in response to the CAIO’s request, of up to one year for the minimum requirements outlined in Section 5 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: No – Agency did not request an extension for this use case.
+ **Whether an AI impact assessment for the AI use case has been completed, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(A) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. This assessment should document at least the intended purpose for the AI and its expected benefits, the potential risks of using the AI, and the quality and appropriateness of the relevant data**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case has been tested for performance in a real-world environment to understand its potential impact on individual(s) or communities, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(B) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Benchmark evaluation: Testing of the AI model has involved the use of benchmarks (either publicly available or internally created) to estimate performance in real-world settings, but has not been tested in an operational environment.
+ **Identification of the reasonably foreseeable risks from using the AI use case, to include the risk of inequitable outcomes for individuals. This can be informed by publicly known risks identified in similar use cases or contexts. Examples of such risks include at least physical injury, emotional/psychological injury, opportunity loss, economic loss, privacy loss, environmental impact, or civil rights and civil liberties impact**: There is a risk that the face detection model testing will show the model performs poorly for certain performance metrics that cannot be remediated through software configuration or other reasonable means. In that scenario, ICE will either pursue using a different face detection model or pursue additional testing to uncover the root cause of poor performance.
+ **Whether an independent evaluation of the AI use case has been conducted through the CAIO, an agency AI oversight board, or other appropriate agency office with existing test and evaluation responsibilities, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(C) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. The independent reviewing authority must not have been directly involved in the AI system’s development**: Yes – by the CAIO
+ **Whether there’s an established process for monitoring performance of the AI system’s functionality and changes to its impact on rights and/or safety, including, if relevant, the risk of AI-enabled discrimination, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(D) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: No monitoring protocols have been established: Necessary infrastructure needed to perform monitoring of AI systems in production is not available and/or a plan to monitor models has not yet been established.
+ **Whether the agency has determined that the AI can carry out its individual core decisions or actions that could result in a significant impact on rights and safety without direct human involvement. The answer should not be “yes” if humans are not reviewing individual decisions and are only overseeing or reviewing the performance of the system in general**: No - Some individual decisions or actions require direct human oversight.
+ **How the agency is providing reasonable and timely notice regarding the use of AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(I) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: None of the above
+ **How the agency has assessed whether there are significant disparities in the AI’s performance across demographic groups, including in the AI’s real-world deployment, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(A) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: No
+ **How the agency has consulted affected groups, including underserved communities, in the design, development, and use of the AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(B) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: None for liveness detection using Google ML Kit. For facial verification, ICE leverages CBP TVS and inherits their controls.
+ **How the agency has consulted affected groups, including underserved communities, in the design, development, and use of the AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(B) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Direct user testing
+ **Whether the agency has established a fallback and escalation process, which may include reverting to manual human processes, in the event that an impacted individual would like to appeal or contest an AI system’s outcome, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(E) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has established an opt-out mechanism, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(F) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Yes