# Operational Activities Explorer
## DHS-2024-0075
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / CISA


+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The integration of an AI tool into a dashboard to analyze cyber and physical incidents affecting critical infrastructure from all-source reporting could assist with maintaining operational clarity and centralized situational awareness. However, CISA decided not to move forward from the conceptual phase due to the nuances of event data and resource constraints.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This use case is inactive. Please see the "intended purpose and expected benefits" for a full description of this use case.
The integration of an AI tool into a dashboard to analyze cyber and physical incidents affecting critical infrastructure from all-source reporting could assist with maintaining operational clarity and centralized situational awareness. However, CISA decided not to move forward from the conceptual phase due to the nuances of event data and resource constraints. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/1/2021
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: N/A - This use case was never initiated and never formally retired.