# RAVEn Compliance Automation Tool (CAT)
## DHS-2024-0103
_[Department of Homeland Security](<../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md>)_ (DHS) / ICE


+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Repository for Analytics in a Virtualized Environment (RAVEn) Compliance Automation Tool (CAT) is being developed as part of an effort to modernize HSI’s Form I-9 Inspection Process. The goal is to uses machine learning (ML) and automation to increase the speed and efficiency of ingesting and processing Forms I-9 data. Easy to use front-end interface workflow that increases work productivity and reduces manual entry. RAVEn CAT currently employs an Optical Recognition Service (OCR) model and software (Tesseract OCR) to identify pixel coordinates of handwritten and read/extract computer typed characters from ingested forms for processing. Additional research into opensource ML Object Detection models is being made to help further augment accuracy of text identification and extraction of ingested forms into the pipeline.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This use case is inactive. Please see the "intended purpose and expected benefits" for a full description of this use case.
Repository for Analytics in a Virtualized Environment (RAVEn) Compliance Automation Tool (CAT) is being developed as part of an effort to modernize HSI’s Form I-9 Inspection Process. The goal is to uses machine learning (ML) and automation to increase the speed and efficiency of ingesting and processing Forms I-9 data. Easy to use front-end interface workflow that increases work productivity and reduces manual entry. RAVEn CAT currently employs an Optical Recognition Service (OCR) model and software (Tesseract OCR) to identify pixel coordinates of handwritten and read/extract computer typed characters from ingested forms for processing. Additional research into opensource ML Object Detection models is being made to help further augment accuracy of text identification and extraction of ingested forms into the pipeline. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: 7/1/2022