## DHS-2024-0177
+ **Title of the AI use case:**: Automated Realtime Global Organization Specialist (ARGOS) for Company Registration Submissions to E-Verify
+ **Agency responsible for the AI use case:**: Department of Homeland Security
+ **Agency abbreviation:**: DHS
+ **Specific organization(s) within the agency responsible for the AI use case:**: USCIS
+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case:**: Mission-Enabling
+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case:**: 
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B:**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public:**: ARGOS sentiment analysis produces a risk score and keyword extraction identifies the keword category of interest to the VAC MPAs (management and program analyst) for the aggregated open-source information to help quickly identify any pertinent information to aid the MPAs in their open-source investigation of company applications.  This saves potentially thousands of MPA man hours in open-source investigation and creates a single source-of-truth for each MPAs investigation of a company application.  This, in turn, allows for quicker application processing and, if risk of company fraud exists, much faster referral processing time quickening the next-step referral to FDNS for further investigations.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc:**: Responses back to a user dashboard accessible internally only by VAC Management and Program Analyst (MPA) personnel.  Keywords relating to the MPA's work interest are extracted if present and risk scores are assigned to the open-source collected information. The data is presented to the MPA on the GUI (graphical user interface) dashboard.
ARGOS searches publicly available datasets (like a human would) to establish risk and potential fraud associated with a company using E-Verify. The use case output informs USCIS Verification Account Compliance (VAC) analysts' decisions regarding whether a company applying to register on E-Verify is fraudulent and should be referred for investigation. ARGOS searches a multitude of public datasets for information that is then ranked and scored based on text analysis and a risk and fraud model developed in collaboration with the USCIS VAC team. The ARGOS application then displays that information to the end-user, allowing them to view the possibilities of fraud and make an informed decision. The goal of the use case is to streamline the process and accelerate work for the individual who is researching a company that has submitted its information for registration to E-Verify. 

ARGOS sentiment analysis produces a risk score, and keyword extraction identifies the keyword category of interest to the VAC management and program analysts (MPAs) for the aggregated open-source information. This helps quickly identify any pertinent information to aid the MPAs in their open-source investigation of company applications. This process saves potentially thousands of MPA man-hours in open-source investigation and creates a single source of truth for each MPA's investigation of a company application. In turn, this allows for quicker application processing and, if the risk of company fraud exists, much faster referral processing time, expediting the next-step referral to Fraud Detection and National Security (FDNS) for further investigations. 

Responses are sent back to a user dashboard accessible internally only by VAC Management and Program Analyst (MPA) personnel. Keywords related to the MPA's work interests are extracted if present, and risk scores are assigned to the open source collected information. The data is presented to the MPA on the graphical user interface (GUI) dashboard. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC):**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: Rights-Impacting
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined:**: 6/16/2021
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began:**: 6/16/2021
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use:**: 8/12/2023
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement:**: 
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both:**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case:**: 70SBUR24F00000163
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/:**: No
+ **Identification of the High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) that the AI use case supports:**: 
+ **Identification of the specific public-facing service that the AI use case supports:**: 
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public:**: No
+ **Description of how the agency is ensuring that this AI use case is compliant with Information Quality Act guidelines and OMB Memorandum M-19-15, if applicable:**: 
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130:**: No
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case:**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development:**: Other
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the rights datasets to begin model development:**: The machine learning models are using publicly safe open-source data. They do not need agency data for training. The process utilized for ARGOS is transfer learning.
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor:**: The fine-tuned dataset is collected from open-source queries from the Bing API connected to the ARGOS system.  This is publicly available data that doesn't contain any PII.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task:**: Documentation has been partially completed: Some documentation exists (detailing the composition and any statistical bias or measurement skew for training and evaluation purposes), but documentation took place within this use case’s development.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any:**: None
+ **Identification of the other demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any:**: 
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code:**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case:**: Yes – agency has access to source code, but it is not public.
+ **Link to publicly available source code for the AI use case, if available, in alignment with OMB Memorandum M-24-10’s section on sharing:**: 
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO:**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO:**: ARGOS (Automated Real-Time Global Organization Specialist)
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments:**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency:**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency:**: 
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models:**: No
+ **Whether communication regarding the provisioning of requested resources for the AI use case has been timely:**: 
+ **:**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether communication regarding the provisioning of requested resources for the AI use case has been timely:**: 
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development:**: Use of existing data platforms: This use case is being developed on existing enterprise data and analytics platforms within the agency rather than procuring additional platforms or SaaS to operate.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency:**: Limited documentation for review: Some information regarding the model’s performance on specific benchmarks are available or have been shared with specific stakeholders within the agency.
+ **Whether the agency requested an extension for this AI use case, in response to the CAIO’s request, of up to one year for the minimum requirements outlined in Section 5 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: No – Agency did not request an extension for this use case.
+ **Whether an AI impact assessment for the AI use case has been completed, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(A) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. This assessment should document at least the intended purpose for the AI and its expected benefits, the potential risks of using the AI, and the quality and appropriateness of the relevant data:**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case has been tested for performance in a real-world environment to understand its potential impact on individual(s) or communities, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(B) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: Impact evaluation in operational environment: The AI use case has been tested in an operational environment before being fully implemented as a solution and has utilized randomized experiments with a control group or other counterfactual, social systems analysis, or other rigorous research methodologies to evaluate impact and identify potential harm to users as well as broader groups of people.
+ **Identification of the reasonably foreseeable risks from using the AI use case, to include the risk of inequitable outcomes for individuals. This can be informed by publicly known risks identified in similar use cases or contexts. Examples of such risks include at least physical injury, emotional/psychological injury, opportunity loss, economic loss, privacy loss, environmental impact, or civil rights and civil liberties impact:**: Data Collection Bias: search engine prioritization of certain content may skew results. Lack of Domain-Specific Accuracy: model tested on company data across different industries resulted in inconsistent performance. Limited Generalization to Unseen Data: model’s performance on validation datasets lower than on training data, indicating potential overfitting. Misinterpretation of Sentiment: instances of sarcasm/irony not recognized. All risks identified in testing and evaluation phases.
+ **Whether an independent evaluation of the AI use case has been conducted through the CAIO, an agency AI oversight board, or other appropriate agency office with existing test and evaluation responsibilities, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(C) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. The independent reviewing authority must not have been directly involved in the AI system’s development:**: Yes – by the CAIO
+ **Whether there’s an established process for monitoring performance of the AI system’s functionality and changes to its impact on rights and/or safety, including, if relevant, the risk of AI-enabled discrimination, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(D) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: Intermittent and Manually Updated: A plan for monitoring the AI use case is in place, and requires data science teams to work with DevOps engineers to manually update models at scheduled intervals, and create metrics to detect data distribution shifts between the operational environment and the training data for the model.
+ **Whether the agency has determined that the AI can carry out its individual core decisions or actions that could result in a significant impact on rights and safety without direct human involvement. The answer should not be “yes” if humans are not reviewing individual decisions and are only overseeing or reviewing the performance of the system in general:**: No - Some individual decisions or actions require direct human oversight.
+ **How the agency is providing reasonable and timely notice regarding the use of AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(I) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: 
+ **How the agency is providing reasonable and timely notice regarding the use of AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(I) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: N/A - individuals are not interacting with the AI for this use case
+ **Whether the AI use case significantly influences the outcome of an adverse decision or action, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(D) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Examples include the denial of benefits or deeming a transaction fraudulent:**: 
+ **How the agency has assessed whether there are significant disparities in the AI’s performance across demographic groups, including in the AI’s real-world deployment, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(A) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: No
+ **How the agency has consulted affected groups, including underserved communities, in the design, development, and use of the AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(B) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: Bias monitoring, fine-tuning data balancing, and statistical precision deviation monitoring have been put in place.
+ **How the agency has consulted affected groups, including underserved communities, in the design, development, and use of the AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(B) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: None of the above
+ **How the agency has consulted affected groups, including underserved communities, in the design, development, and use of the AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(B) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: 
+ **Whether the agency has established a fallback and escalation process, which may include reverting to manual human processes, in the event that an impacted individual would like to appeal or contest an AI system’s outcome, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(E) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: Yes
+ **Why the agency does not have an established fallback and escalation process:**: 
+ **Whether the agency has established an opt-out mechanism, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(F) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: No – This AI use case is not subject to the opt-out requirement because the AI functionality is solely used for the prevention, detection, and investigation of fraud or cybersecurity incidents, or the conduct of a criminal investigation.
+ **Whether the agency has established an opt-out mechanism, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(F) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: 