# Geospatial Damage Assessments
## DHS-2024-0085
_Department of Homeland Security_ (DHS) / FEMA


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Emergency Management
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: We will integrate these automated tools for imagery-based damage assessments into RGO processes and systems to inform FEMA geospatial analysts.  FEMA geospatial analysts will review output and develop recommendations, so FEMA can quickly detect and characterize damaged and undamaged buildings, identify the concentrations of damage, identify and detect debris, and to support rapid response and recovery activities.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: AI models generate points or polygons over areas where damage or debris is likely. This output is a recommendation meant to trigger investigation by human analysts via traditional damage assessments. In large scale incidents, imagery collection can be comprised of hundreds of thousands of miles of land and millions of structures. AI automation allows for the prioritization of imagery exploitation where damage is likely to have occurred, reducing the time required to identify impacts and summarize damage sustained.
The Response Geospatial Office (RGO) is exploring the use of AI to assist in the prioritization of structural and debris assessments. RGO reviews satellite, aerial, and radar imagery to expedite damage assessments in the aftermath of a disaster. RGO is utilizing several AI techniques, including computer vision, machine learning, and deep learning, to help prioritize imagery exploitation by identifying areas likely having damage or debris. Areas indicated as likely having damage or debris are prioritized for imagery exploitation by analysts, reducing the time required for visual damage assessments. FEMA will integrate these automated tools for imagery-based damage assessments into RGO processes and systems to inform FEMA geospatial analysts. FEMA geospatial analysts will review output and develop recommendations, so FEMA can quickly detect and characterize damaged and undamaged buildings, identify concentrations of damage, detect debris, and support rapid response and recovery activities. AI models generate points or polygons over areas where damage or debris is likely. This output is a recommendation meant to trigger investigation by human analysts via traditional damage assessments. In large-scale incidents, imagery collection can be comprised of hundreds of thousands of miles of land and millions of structures. AI automation allows for the prioritization of imagery exploitation where damage is likely to have occurred, reducing the time required to identify impacts and summarize damage sustained. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Implementation and Assessment
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 8/1/2022
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 8/1/2022
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: The PIID is specific to the disaster the use case is used for.
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: No
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: Geospatial Damage Assessments.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation has been partially completed: Some documentation exists (detailing the composition and any statistical bias or measurement skew for training and evaluation purposes), but documentation took place within this use case’s development.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: None
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: No
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: No – agency does not have access to source code.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: No
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Other
+ **Explanation for whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: We are not developing models in house, we have contracted out our AI work
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Other
+ **Whether communication regarding the provisioning of requested resources for the AI use case has been timely**: We are not developing models in house, we have contracted out our AI work
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Other
+ **Explanation for whether communication regarding the provisioning of requested resources for the AI use case has been timely**: We are not developing models in house, we have contracted out our AI work
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: None: This use case does not re-use any internally developed tooling or managed infrastructure from any other AI development efforts within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Limited documentation for review: Some information regarding the model’s performance on specific benchmarks are available or have been shared with specific stakeholders within the agency.