# Planning Assistant for Resilient Communities (PARC)
## DHS-2024-0087
_Department of Homeland Security_ (DHS) / FEMA


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Emergency Management
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Hazard mitigation plans are not only a foundational step that communities can take to build their resilience but can be lengthy to produce and challenging for communities that lack resources to do so. PARC will specifically support State, Local, Tribal, and Territorial (SLTT) governments’ understanding of how to craft a plan that identifies risks and mitigation strategies as well as generate draft plan elements—from publicly-available, well-researched sources — that governments could customize to meet their needs. This capability could provide planners more time to allocate toward community engagement and stakeholder collaboration, and lead to more communities having the ability to submit grant applications for funding to become more resilient and reduce disaster risks.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The Beta Release GenAI Plan Generator (OpenAI GPT-4o) is an LLM that  generates sections of the Hazard Mitigation Plans based on user inputs. It processes prompts and user responses to create detailed, regulatory-compliant Hazard Mitigation Plan sections.  Beta Release PARC Assistant (OpenAI GPT-4o) prodices responses through an interactive chat assistant. The Assistant helps planners by answering questions related to the Hazard Mitigation Plan process, offering explanations of policy guidelines, and guiding users through FEMA’s regulatory requirements.
The proposed Generative AI (GenAI) solution, Planning Assistant for Resilient Communities (PARC) will create efficiencies for the hazard mitigation planning process for local governments, including underserved communities. Hazard mitigation plans are not only a foundational step that communities can take to build their resilience but can be lengthy to produce and challenging for communities that lack resources to do so. PARC will specifically support State, Local, Tribal, and Territorial (SLTT) governments’ understanding of how to craft a plan that identifies risks and mitigation strategies as well as generate draft plan elements—from publicly available, well researched sources—that governments could customize to meet their needs. This capability could lead to more communities having the ability to submit grant applications for funding to become more resilient and reduce disaster risks. 

The Beta Release GenAI Plan Generator (OpenAI GPT-4o) is a Large Language Model (LLM) that generates sections of the Hazard Mitigation Plans based on user inputs. It processes prompts and user responses to create detailed, regulatory-compliant Hazard Mitigation Plan sections.  Beta Release PARC Assistant (OpenAI GPT-4o) produces responses through an interactive chat assistant. The Assistant helps planners by answering questions related to the Hazard Mitigation Plan process, offering explanations of policy guidelines, and guiding users through the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA’s) regulatory requirements. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/27/2023
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 1/29/2024
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with both contracting and in-house resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: 70FA4020A0000000281, 70FA3020A00000008
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: The agency-owned data included: Legal/Policy Documents (i.e., federal legal and policy references, such as nondiscrimination clauses and presidential memorandums); Regulations (i.e., regulatory texts, including sections of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR)); and Guides and Handbooks (i.e., FEMA-issued guides that provide frameworks and instructions, such as planning handbooks and operational guides).
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is missing or not available: No documentation exists regarding maintenance, composition, quality, or intended use of the training and evaluation data.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: None
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: No
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: 6-12 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: None: This use case does not re-use any internally developed tooling or managed infrastructure from any other AI development efforts within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Limited documentation for review: Some information regarding the model’s performance on specific benchmarks are available or have been shared with specific stakeholders within the agency.