# Case Processing Improvements in FDNS-DS NexGen
## DHS-2024-0158
_[Department of Homeland Security](<../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md>)_ (DHS) / USCIS


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Law & Justice
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: In the future, USCIS may consider using artificial intelligence (AI) / machine learning (ML)  FDNS-DS NexGen or other systems  may data from other applications for FDNS-DS NexGen or other systems to aid in investigative work, enhance investigative case prioritization, and detect duplicate case work. USCIS may consider and explore investigating whether it would be useful to integrate AI/ML into the predictive modeling for potential future system enhancements, also integrate AI/ML into the predictive modeling for future system enhancements, working side-by-side with the business stakeholders to develop best practices. Fraud occurs in numerous ways; being able to discover and detect persons with multiple identities allows for more comprehensive investigations, reduces investigative cycle time, and improves performance.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The requirements for this AI use case are currently unspecified, however, future outputs may include recommendations, prioritization/rankings, and anomaly detection pieces to assist with fraud detection and management.
USCIS created the Fraud Detection and National Security (FDNS) Directorate to strengthen the integrity of the nation’s immigration system and to ensure that immigration benefits are not granted to individuals who may pose a threat to national security and/or public safety. In addition, the FDNS Directorate is responsible for detecting, deterring, and combating immigration benefit fraud.  In 2005, USCIS developed a case management system, the Fraud Detection and National Security-Data System (FDNS-DS), to record, track, and manage the screening processes related to immigration applications, petitions, or requests with suspected or confirmed fraud, public safety, or national security concerns, and to identify vulnerabilities that may compromise the integrity of the legal immigration system.  In June 2023, FDNS-DS was replaced with a modernized case management system, FDNS-DS NexGen.  In the future, FDNS-DS NexGen may use artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) data from other applications to aid in investigative work, enhance investigative case prioritization, and detect duplicate case work. USCIS may also integrate AI/ML into the predictive modeling for future system enhancements, working side-by-side with the business stakeholders to develop best practices. Fraud occurs in numerous ways; being able to discover and detect persons with multiple identities allows for more comprehensive investigations, reduces investigative cycle time, and improves performance. Future implementation of AI/ML techniques will speed up case and investigative processing by several magnitudes. For more information, please visit: https://www.dhs.gov/publication/dhsuscispia-013-01-fraud-detection-and-national-security-directorate  While FDNS-DS NexGen is in production, the AI/ML functionality is still in discovery stages. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 9/20/2022