# Facial Recognition Service
## DHS-2024-0105
_Department of Homeland Security_ (DHS) / ICE


+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The Facial Recognition Service is used during investigations conducted by Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) agents and analysts for identification of known individuals, as well as extracting faces for further investigations from perpetrators including child exploitation offenses, human rights atrocities, and war criminals.  This is a DHS HSI Innovation Lab/RAVEn project. The Repository for Analytics in a Virtualized Environment (RAVEn) facilitates large, complex analytical projects to support ICE’s mission to enforce and investigate violations of U.S. criminal, civil, and administrative laws. RAVEn also enables tools used to analyze trends and isolate criminal patterns as HSI mission needs arise.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This use case is inactive. Please see the "intended purpose and expected benefits" for a full description of this use case.
The Facial Recognition Service is used during investigations conducted by Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) agents and analysts for identification of known individuals, as well as extracting faces for further investigations from perpetrators including child exploitation offenses, human rights atrocities, and war criminals.  This is a DHS HSI Innovation Lab/RAVEn project. The Repository for Analytics in a Virtualized Environment (RAVEn) facilitates large, complex analytical projects to support ICE’s mission to enforce and investigate violations of U.S. criminal, civil, and administrative laws. RAVEn also enables tools used to analyze trends and isolate criminal patterns as HSI mission needs arise. For more information, please read the DHS/ICE/PIA-055 - Privacy Impact Assessment 055 for RAVEn. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 8/1/2020
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 12/1/2020
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 8/1/2021
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: N/A - Deconsolidation of several use cases