# MiX Phenotyping
## DHS-2024-0130
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / OHS


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Health & Medical
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Electronic medical records can provide key data for health security insights. AI/ML makes it possible to translate these records into machine-readable data, which is the first step to finding these health security insights. AI/ML will then be used to find clinical patterns across the data, such as patterns in symptoms over time and location. AI/ML will also be used to automate the process for detecting new trends (anomalies) in these clinical patterns. These health security insights can alert about potential threats, inform messaging, and provide decision support to medical and public health partners.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The main AI system outputs will include anomaly detection for emerging trends in clinical record patterns. AI/ML outputs will also be used to find these clinical patterns by clustering, classification and topic modeling. These clinical patterns will finally be output as linear reference models that are simple enough to be interpreted and guided by human clinicians using human-in-the-loop collaboration.
The goal for this proof-of-concept project is to automate creation of health security insights from DHS electronic medical record data. Clinical notes taken during clinical medical provision will be parsed into key terms and phrases, organized into machine-readable data, and integrated with other data such as geographic location of relevant DHS facilities. AI/ML is used to automate this data processing and quickly identify new DHS clinical patterns. These patterns can provide key health security insights, such as emerging disease detection (anomaly detection), and provide decision support to medical and public health community partners. 

The main AI system outputs will include anomaly detection for emerging trends in clinical record patterns. AI/ML outputs will identify these clinical patterns by clustering, classification, and topic modeling. Finally, these clinical patterns will be presented as linear reference models that are simple enough to be interpreted and guided by human clinicians using human-in-the-loop collaboration. 

Phenotyping will use only de-identified medical data that is publicly available or such de-identified data in DHS care and custody whose use is authorized under a specific Information Exchange Agreement.  
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 1/1/2021