# Asylum Text Analytics
## DHS-2024-0162
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / USCIS


+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: USCIS oversees lawful immigration to the United States. As set forth in Section 451(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, Public Law 107-296, Congress charged USCIS with administering the asylum program. USCIS, through its Asylum Division within the Refugee, Asylum & International Operations Directorate (RAIO), administers the affirmative asylum program to provide protection to qualified individuals in the United States who have suffered past persecution or have a well-founded fear of future persecution in their country of origin, as outlined under Section 208 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), 8 U.S.C. § 1158 and Title 8 of the Code of Federal Regulations (C.F.R.), Part 208. Generally, an individual not in removal proceedings may apply for asylum through the affirmative asylum process regardless of how the individual arrived in the United States or his or her current immigration status by filing Form I-589, Application for Asylum and for Withholding of Removal. The ATA capability employs machine learning and data graphing techniques to identify plagiarism-based fraud in applications for asylum status and for the withholding of removal by scanning the digitized narrative sections of the associated forms and looking for common language patterns.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This use case is inactive. Please see the "intended purpose and expected benefits" for a full description of this use case.
USCIS oversees lawful immigration to the United States. As set forth in Section 451(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, Public Law 107-296, Congress charged USCIS with administering the asylum program. USCIS, through its Asylum Division within the Refugee, Asylum & International Operations Directorate (RAIO), administers the affirmative asylum program to provide protection to qualified individuals in the United States who have suffered past persecution or have a well-founded fear of future persecution in their country of origin, as outlined under Section 208 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), 8 U.S.C. § 1158 and Title 8 of the Code of Federal Regulations (C.F.R.), Part 208. Generally, an individual not in removal proceedings may apply for asylum through the affirmative asylum process regardless of how the individual arrived in the United States or his or her current immigration status by filing Form I-589, Application for Asylum and for Withholding of Removal. The ATA capability employs machine learning and data graphing techniques to identify plagiarism-based fraud in applications for asylum status and for the withholding of removal by scanning the digitized narrative sections of the associated forms and looking for common language patterns.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 1/25/2019
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 1/25/2019
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 10/1/2019
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: 10/1/2024