# AI Security and Robustness
## DHS-2024-0074
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / CISA


+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Frameworks, processes, and testing tools are developed to govern the acquisition, development, deployment, and maintenance of AI technologies. Technology integrators within CISA, as well as the rest of the federal enterprise, use AI-enhanced tools to ensure the trustworthy, robust, and secure operation of their AI systems. These tools use machine learning (ML) and Natural Language Processing (NLP) to enhance the assessment of AI technology within the agency by speeding up data processing.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This use case is inactive. Please see the "intended purpose and expected benefits" for a full description of this use case.
Frameworks, processes, and testing tools are developed to govern the acquisition, development, deployment, and maintenance of AI technologies. Technology integrators within CISA, as well as the rest of the federal enterprise, use AI-enhanced tools to ensure the trustworthy, robust, and secure operation of their AI systems. These tools use machine learning (ML) and Natural Language Processing (NLP) to enhance the assessment of AI technology within the agency by speeding up data processing.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/1/2022
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: N/A - Active as R&D only.