# Cyber Incident Reporting
## DHS-2024-0072
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / CISA


+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Cyber incident handling specialists utilize advanced automation tools to process data received through various threat intelligence and cyber incident channels. These tools leverage machine learning (ML) and Natural Language Processing (NLP) to increase the accuracy and relevance of data filtered and presented to human analysts and decision-makers. ML techniques also assist in aggregating the information in reports for presentation and further analysis, including data received through covered Cyber Incident Reporting for Critical Infrastructure Act (CIRCIA) entities. Such tools can leverage current dashboards and reports to cluster vulnerabilities by entity and sector, identifying trends in exposure and remediation. These solutions can also correlate vulnerabilities to existing frameworks (such as MITRE Adversarial Tactics, Techniques, and Common Knowledge (ATT&CK)) and other incidents to understand attackers’ techniques and improve modeling.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This use case is inactive. Please see the "intended purpose and expected benefits" for a full description of this use case.
Cyber incident handling specialists utilize advanced automation tools to process data received through various threat intelligence and cyber incident channels. These tools leverage machine learning (ML) and Natural Language Processing (NLP) to increase the accuracy and relevance of data filtered and presented to human analysts and decision-makers. ML techniques also assist in aggregating the information in reports for presentation and further analysis, including data received through covered Cyber Incident Reporting for Critical Infrastructure Act (CIRCIA) entities. Such tools can leverage current dashboards and reports to cluster vulnerabilities by entity and sector, identifying trends in exposure and remediation. These solutions can also correlate vulnerabilities to existing frameworks (such as MITRE Adversarial Tactics, Techniques, and Common Knowledge (ATT&CK)) and other incidents to understand attackers’ techniques and improve modeling. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/1/2022
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: N/A -Consolidated into another use case.