# AI Curated Synthetic Data
## DHS-2024-0026
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / CBP


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The availability of rare event/outlier data or labeled data that can be used to train and automate detection is severely limited. The technology enhances available libraries of true positives and normal scans from CBP Non-Intrusive Inspection (NII) systems and supports development of Automated Threat Recognition (ATR) algorithms designed to quickly identify items of interest.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Through the technology the end user will have access to enhance existing, deployed algorithms to increase detection performance.
AI Curated Synthetic Data creates synthetic data for computer vision to enable more capable and ethical AI when detecting anomalies in complex environments.  Specifically, it creates an emulated X-ray sensor that can produce visually realistic synthetic X-ray scan images similar to real X-ray scan images, and virtual 3D assets of vehicles and narcotics containers. These images will be used to enhance the development of Anomaly Detection Algorithms for Non-Intrusive Inspection (NII), incorporating Artificial Intelligence/Machine Learning (AI/ML) for the detection of narcotics and other contraband in conveyances and cargo. The availability of rare event/outlier data or labeled data that can be used to train and automate detection is severely limited. The technology enhances available libraries of true positives and normal scans from CBP NII systems and supports development of Automated Threat Recognition (ATR) algorithms designed to quickly identify items of interest. Through the technology, the end user will have access to enhance existing, deployed algorithms to increase detection performance. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/1/2022
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: 10/1/2024