# Biometrics Enrollment Tool (BET) Fingerprint Maximization
## DHS-2024-0174
_[Department of Homeland Security](<../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md>)_ (DHS) / USCIS


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Law & Justice
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: BET assists in determining if the fingerprint taken is good enough quality to pass the FBI fingerprint check process. It provides immediate feedback when a set of prints is likely to be rejected by the FBI by incorporating machine learning models into the BET application. The FBI will not disclose their quality grading criteria for fingerprints, leaving BET with the responsibility of determining quality to prevent unnecessary secondary encounters with applicants.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Numerical Fingerprint Quality score, which is compared against  fingerprint quality thresholds (per finger and per set of fingerprints) to align with FBI specifications
The Biometric Enrollment Tool (BET) is custom-built biometric enrollment software for both domestic and overseas USCIS biometric collections. BET is integrated with the National Appointment Scheduling System (NASS) and the Customer Profile Management System (CPMS). This improves data integrity as BET utilizes data already collected in USCIS systems, reducing the amount of data entry by the Biometric Technician and the risk of typographic errors. BET assists in determining if the fingerprint taken is good enough quality to pass the FBI fingerprint check process. It provides immediate feedback when a set of prints is likely to be rejected by the FBI by incorporating machine learning (ML) models into the BET application. The FBI will not disclose their quality grading criteria for fingerprints, leaving BET with the responsibility of determining quality to prevent unnecessary secondary encounters with applicants. Using even the simplest of models would catch 98% of rejected submissions, which could have potentially saved USCIS from scheduling 42,763 additional appointments in 2020. This would come at the cost of forcing recapture during 11% of encounters. This effort aims to maximize the number of successful FBI submissions while minimizing the number of fingerprint recaptures necessary. The output is a Numerical Fingerprint Quality score, which is compared against fingerprint quality thresholds (per finger and per set of fingerprints) to align with FBI specifications. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 6/1/2021
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 5/23/2023
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 1/1/2024
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: 70SBUR23F00000126
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: Internal data from BET data capture into Databricks lakehouse, numerical values representing fingerprint quality scores determined by the BET system outside of the AI workflow.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is complete: Documentation exists regarding the maintenance, composition, quality, and intended use of the training and evaluation data, as well as any statistical bias across model features and protected groups.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: None
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: Yes – agency has access to source code, but it is not public.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: Biometrics Enrollment Tool
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: No
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: Use of existing data platforms: This use case is being developed on existing enterprise data and analytics platforms within the agency rather than procuring additional platforms or SaaS to operate.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Documentation has been developed: Complete documentation detailing model performance across a range of benchmarks, architecture, relevant features and information regarding the appropriate use of the model for predictive tasks has been created.