# Virtual Agent Chatbot for Human Capital
## DHS-2024-0096
_Department of Homeland Security_ (DHS) / ICE


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Education & Workforce
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The intended purpose of the ServiceNow Virtual Agent natural language understanding (NLU) is to facilitate seamless interactions between users and the chatbot. It aims to provide automated support for common Human Capital related questions and inquiries, enhancing efficiency and user experience.  By understanding natural language, the virtual agent can provide relevant and accurate responses, making it easier for users to get the help they need.  Reduce the amount of submitted inquiries that need to be manually processed by OHC. Reduce the amounts of clicks it takes for the user to find the information they are looking for.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The natural language understanding (NLU) will point towards pre-defined Human Capital related categories that are most relevant based on the users’ inquiries. Specific responses/answers to user questions and resources associated with the questions if applicable.
ICE’s Human Capital Virtual Agent “Alice” is a chatbot available to all ICE employees focused on delivering answers and resources for Human Capital related inquiries through conversation. The chatbot will be enhanced through the implementation of Natural Language Understanding (NLU) within ServiceNow, a type of AI focused on understanding and processing human language to enable effective interactions between the chatbot and users. Understanding natural language will enhance user experience by providing a way for the chatbot to comprehend what the employee is asking for and provide relevant and accurate responses, making it easier for users to get the help they need. By providing ICE employees information fast and efficiently at any time through Virtual Agent NLU, the chatbot aims to reduce the amount of time spent by Human Capital Specialists responding to the inquiries. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Implementation and Assessment
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 5/9/2024
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 8/5/2024
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: 70CTD023FR0000134
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: No
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: ICE Office of Human Capital team members compiled documentation to train the NLU model based on their subject matter expertise on human capital related questions and inquiries.  The data was compiled from knowledge base articles and frequently asked questions for human capital related inquiries.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is complete: Documentation exists regarding the maintenance, composition, quality, and intended use of the training and evaluation data, as well as any statistical bias across model features and protected groups.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: None
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: Yes – agency has access to source code, but it is not public.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: ServiceNow
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: Use of existing data platforms: This use case is being developed on existing enterprise data and analytics platforms within the agency rather than procuring additional platforms or SaaS to operate.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Limited documentation for review: Some information regarding the model’s performance on specific benchmarks are available or have been shared with specific stakeholders within the agency.