# Synthetic Data for Improved Automated Threat Recognition (ATR) in Checkpoint Screening
## DHS-2024-0143
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / TSA


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Transportation
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: To create synthetic data that can be used to improve Automated Threat Recognition (ATR) algorithm development. Synthetic data can be quicker to produce which will improve effectiveness by addressing and adapting to new threats quicker.

Accessible Property Screening (APS) and On-Person Screening (OPS) are working with vendors and evaluating AI-based synthetic data generation techniques to bolster the pool of training data available to develop machine learning algorithms in ATR applications.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Images that mimic the human body and various threats.
Engineers in the Transportation Security Administration’s (TSAs) Accessible Property Screening (APS) and On-Person Screening (OPS) program offices are developing AI to create images of prohibited items (i.e., synthetic data), such as knives or guns. These images are then used to train Automated Threat Recognition (ATR) and other AI models and systems to detect prohibited items in the screening processes. 

Synthetic data can be quicker to produce which will improve effectiveness by addressing and adapting to new threats quicker. APS and OPS are working with vendors and evaluating AI-based synthetic data generation techniques to bolster the pool of training data available to develop machine learning algorithms in ATR applications. The AI will generate images that mimic the human body and various threats. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Both
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 1/11/2023