# AI for Autonomous Situational Awareness
## DHS-2024-0031
_Department of Homeland Security_ (DHS) / CBP


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Law & Justice
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The AI for autonomous situational awareness system is intended to use IoT sensor kits to covertly detect and track illicit cross-border traffic in remote locations. The system will leverage a motion image/video system enhanced with Artificial Intelligence that is capable of vehicle detection and direction determination, to allow for more active monitoring of remote camera feeds that prompt operators to review the items of interest once detected.  This will reduce the overall operator burden of camera monitoring and allow users to accomplish other tasks or system management.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Detections of items of interest being displayed with bounding boxes around the IOI in the image frame and an initial determination of "human, animal, vehicle""
The AI for Autonomous Situational Awareness System is intended to use Internet of Things IoT sensor kits to covertly detect and track illicit cross-border traffic in remote locations.  The system will leverage a motion image/video system enhanced with Artificial Intelligence that is capable of vehicle detection and direction determination. It will also incorporate a motion sensor that, when triggered, wakes up a high-resolution camera to capture a series of pictures, with additional sensors providing confirmation prior to camera capture. Images captured will be processed by Artificial Intelligence models to classify objects, determine vehicle direction at intersections, and provide imagery sufficient for re-identification. Ultimately, the system is intended to create a low footprint, low cost, low power system to provide situational awareness and covert detection., detection and identification of objects at or near the U.S. border, and possibly classification. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/1/2020