# Advanced Analytics for X-ray Images (AAXI)
## DHS-2024-0006
_[Department of Homeland Security](<../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md>)_ (DHS) / CBP


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Law & Justice
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: AAXI aims to address the problem of anomaly detection in empty commercial vehicles entering the United States at land border ports of entry. The AI models achieve this goal by encoding past X-Ray images of vehicular border crossings in a semantically meaningful way and comparing the current crossing to detect differences amongst the images to identify anomalies. Benefits include enhancement of the capability of humans to consistently detect items of interest/concern present (and possibly concealed) in vehicles crossing into the United States, and increased clearance rate at border crossings so that vehicles operating safely and lawfully may pass through the border faster.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: AAXI produces bounding boxes around an anomaly or unidentifiable object(s) within an image or any portion of the image that cannot be identified or explained.
Advanced Analytics for X-ray Images (AAXI) aims to address the problem of anomaly detection in empty commercial vehicles entering the U.S. at land border ports of entry. The AI models achieve this goal by encoding past x-ray images of vehicular border crossings in a semantically meaningful way and comparing the current crossing to detect differences amongst the images to identify anomalies. The system produces bounding boxes around an anomaly or unidentifiable object(s) within an image or any portion of the image that cannot be identified or explained. Benefits include enhancement of the capability of humans to consistently detect items of interest/concern present (and possibly concealed) in vehicles crossing into the United States, and increased clearance rate at border crossings so that vehicles operating safely and lawfully may pass through the border faster. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Rights-Impacting
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 1/1/2022
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 6/1/2022
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: IAA with S&T
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: No
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: NII Images
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is missing or not available: No documentation exists regarding maintenance, composition, quality, or intended use of the training and evaluation data.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: None
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: No
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: None: This use case does not re-use any internally developed tooling or managed infrastructure from any other AI development efforts within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Limited documentation for review: Some information regarding the model’s performance on specific benchmarks are available or have been shared with specific stakeholders within the agency.