# Recovery and Resilience Resource (RRR) Portal
## DHS-2024-0088
_[Department of Homeland Security](<../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md>)_ (DHS) / FEMA


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The AI-layer (currently unfunded) would include a smart matching wizard functionallity via AI large language model (LLM) to connect SLTT partners with the resources that meet their unique needs. Increasing access and improving navigation of federal resources will benefit a wide array of stakeholders across all sectors, including private and public. The primary stakeholders are SLTTs that are looking to support recovery and/or resilience in communities. This includes 50 States, DC, and 5 US Territories, about 80,000 local governments (including special districts), 574 Federally recognized Tribal governments, and their partners. Additional stakeholders include the 25+ federal departments and agencies that are members of the Mitigation Framework Leadership Group (MitFLG), who have equity in the availability of comprehensive resources, best practices, or tools for SLTTs to recover from or increase resilience to disasters.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The smart matching wizard will be an AI LLM that analyzes user search behavior and matches recommended resources from across the expansive data library that will include resources from federal, state, local, nonprofit sectors.
The Recovery and Resilience Resource (RRR) Portal aims to simplify the process of finding and using disaster recovery and resilience resources and information for State, Local, Tribal, and Territorial (SLTT) decision-makers as well as the communities they serve. The RRR Portal brings together technical, financial, and information assistance into one easy-to-use platform to reduce the time it takes to navigate the wide range of available resources. The non-AI layers (currently funded) will provide an intuitive user interface, a business intelligence reporting tool, and an expansive data library. The AI-layer (currently unfunded) would include a smart matching wizard functionality via AI Large Language Model (LLM) to connect SLTT partners with the resources that meet their unique needs. 

Increasing access and improving navigation of federal resources will benefit a wide array of stakeholders across all sectors, including private and public. The primary stakeholders are SLTTs that are looking to support recovery and/or resilience in communities. This includes 50 states, Washington D.C., 5 U.S. territories, about 80,000 local governments (including special districts), 574 federally recognized tribal governments, and their partners. Additional stakeholders include the 25+ federal departments and agencies that are members of the Mitigation Framework Leadership Group (MitFLG), who have equity in the availability of comprehensive resources, best practices, or tools for SLTTs to recover from or increase resilience to disasters. 

The smart matching wizard will be an AI LLM that analyzes user search behavior and matches recommended resources from across the expansive data library that will include resources from federal, state, local, nonprofit sectors. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 4/30/2024