# Cyber Threat Detection
## DHS-2024-0022
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / CBP


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The technology will provide premise and/or behind the firewall deployments to support all cloud environments. The technology will establish a decoy file sharing capability such as SharePoint, Shared Drive, etc. with tailored decoy products or reports and monitor and alert on the access and interactions with the decoys.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The technology enables the accurate detection of malicious activity in the cyber environment for actionable insights so that leadership can identify threats and efficiently mitigate them while reducing the cost of other security defenses. With the technology, the user will be alerted of detected compromise, evaluation of the creation of decoys, and the monitoring/analysis of interaction with the decoys from the adversary.
Cyber Threat Detection is a cyber platform that enables CBP to detect, engage, and respond to malicious activity across hybrid cloud deployments, protecting both IT and networks. It uses generative AI (GenAI) to create decoys, lures, baits, and breadcrumbs, to detect threats and allows for more proactive threat identification and associated mitigation. The technology will establish a decoy file sharing capability such as SharePoint, Shared Drive, etc. with tailored decoy products or reports and monitor and alert on the access and interactions with the decoys. The technology enables the accurate detection of malicious activity in the cyber environment for actionable insights so that leadership can identify threats and efficiently mitigate them while reducing the cost of other security defenses. With the technology, the user will be alerted of detected compromise, evaluation of the creation of decoys, and the monitoring/analysis of interaction with the decoys from the adversary.  
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 3/29/2024