# Report Analysis and Archive System (RAAS)
## DHS-2024-0079
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / CWMD


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: To assist users of the Test and Evaluation document archive in locating documents and portions of document that are relevant for their needs by specifying individual queries as natural language questions, responding with detailed, natural language answers, and facilitating attainment of related or more precise information through follow-up questions.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Intermediate outputs include context summaries to facilitate indexing of document passages. Output to the user includes summarization of content relevant to the questions and interests indicated by the conversation with the user.
 RAAS is an information management system for the retention and dissemination of test reports, test data, and evaluations of Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear (CBRN) detection equipment. RAAS simplifies the ability for human analysts to search for documents and phrases using natural language. RAAS is being developed to assist users of the Test and Evaluation document archive in locating documents and portions of document that are relevant to their needs. Users can specify individual queries as natural language questions and receive detailed answers. The system also facilitates the attainment of related or more precise information through follow-up questions. RAAS is funded by CWMD Test & Evaluation (T&E) and is developed and maintained by Argonne National Lab (ANL).  

Intermediate outputs will include context summaries to facilitate indexing of document passages. Output to the user will include summarization of content relevant to the questions and interests indicated by the conversation with the user. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 8/1/2023
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 10/1/2023
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: 70RWMD20K00000016
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: No
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: The data set available to the model is the set of CWMD Test and Evaluation Division test reports stored in the RAAS archive.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation has been partially completed: Some documentation exists (detailing the composition and any statistical bias or measurement skew for training and evaluation purposes), but documentation took place within this use case’s development.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: None
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: Report Analysis and Archive System (RAAS)
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: No
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: No
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Other
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: None: This use case does not re-use any internally developed tooling or managed infrastructure from any other AI development efforts within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: No documentation is available: No documentation detailing model performance metrics, model architecture, features and intended use of the models have been created or are currently accessible to other data science teams within the agency.