# USCIS Translation Service
## DHS-2024-0159
_Department of Homeland Security_ (DHS) / USCIS


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Document Translation: Integrate AI and GenAI models trained on relevant subject matter (e.g., immigration law, visa/immigration applications, family/adoption certificates, and other sourced processing materials) to provide fast, accurate translation of written or other digital documents in various languages.
Real-time Interpretation: Utilizing AI and GenAI-powered speech-to-speech, speech-to-text translation tools for efficient communication, consultations, and other interactions within DHS. Across all DHS components the need to support language translation and transcription is crucial for operations and adjudications.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Translated documents and translated languages.
USCIS is testing AI-powered tools to quickly and accurately translate documents and provide real-time interpretation, enhancing communication and processing for immigration services. The USCIS Translation Service assesses the effectiveness and security of GenAI-powered translation tools for document translation and real-time interpretation. AI and GenAI models trained on relevant subjects (e.g., immigration law, visa applications, family/adoption certificates) provide fast, accurate translation of written or other digital documents in various languages. AI and GenAI-powered speech-to-speech and speech-to-text translation tools enable efficient communication, consultations, and other interactions within DHS. Supporting language translation and transcription is crucial for operations and adjudications across all DHS components. One use case application involves United States Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP) document translation, a time-consuming task for Resettlement Support Center (RSC) caseworkers before USCIS interviews. Documents include passports, national identifications, birth certificates, and more complex documents. The goal is to reduce or eliminate RSC casework dedicated to document collection, translation, data extraction, and summarization by leveraging document translation services. This allows USCIS officers to translate documents ad hoc during interviews.  

USCIS Translation Service use case addresses 4 key problem areas: 1) Limited capacity: Traditional translation methods rely on a finite pool of human translators, causing bottlenecks and delays. 2) Accuracy variability: Consistency and nuance can vary with individual translator expertise, especially with the diversity of languages in the Western Hemisphere and at the Southern Border. AI services aim to enhance consistency and address unique dialects. 3) Cost constraints: Scaling multilingual services through traditional methods can be resource-intensive and expensive. 4) Accessibility limitations: Real-time, on-demand translations are often unavailable, delaying communication and processing.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Rights-Impacting
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 1/1/2024