# Autonomous Maritime Awareness
## DHS-2024-0043
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / CBP


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Law & Justice
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The technology is equipped to operate in low temperatures, ice, and snow enable real-time surveillance for continuous monitoring of maritime activity, even in harsh conditions, while providing enhanced detection capabilities to identify threats such as unauthorized vessels or smuggling activities in difficult-to-navigate regions.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The system provides real-time notifications of suspicious activities, continuous tracking data on vessel locations and movements, and detailed threat assessments to support enforcement actions in cold-weather environments.
The Autonomous Maritime Awareness system combines surveillance towers, ocean data solutions, unmanned autonomous surface vehicles (ASV), and AI to autonomously detect, identify, and track items of interest in a maritime environment. The towers are low-cost, customizable, and relocatable surveillance systems. They are equipped with a suite of radars and day/night camera sensors. The ASVs have been ruggedized for the open ocean and are powered by wind, solar, and/or onboard engine as required, allowing them to operate in an area of responsibility (AOR) for up to 12 months. Their sensor suite includes cameras and radar. Both systems use AI/ML to detect and identify objects, determine items of interest (IoI) and autonomously track those items using their sensor suites. Once identified, these systems can send alerts to monitoring agencies for at-sea interdiction of potential targets and/or intel collections. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/1/2020
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 10/1/2020
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 1/30/2024
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: 6/21/2024