# CDC Airport Hotspot Throughput (PageRank)
## DHS-2024-0148
_[Department of Homeland Security](<../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md>)_ (DHS) / TSA


+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: TSA launched the “Stay Healthy. Stay Secure.” campaign, which details proactive and protective measures implemented at security checkpoints to make the screening process safer for passengers and our workforce by reducing the potential of exposure to the coronavirus. The campaign includes guidance and resources to help passengers prepare for the security screening process in the COVID environment. A big part of that campaign was the development of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's Airport Hotspot Throughput. This capability determines the domestic airports that have the highest rank of connecting flights during the holiday travel season to help mitigate the spread of COVID-19. This capability is a DHS-developed artificial intelligence model written in Spark/Scala that takes historical non-PII travel data and computes the highest-ranking airports based on the PageRank algorithm. TSA does not make decisions about flight cancellations or airport closures. These decisions are made locally, on a case-by-case basis, by individual airlines, airports, and public health officials. TSA will continuously evaluate and adapt procedures and policies to keep the public and our workforce safe as we learn more about this devastating disease and how it spreads.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This use case is inactive. Please see the "intended purpose and expected benefits" for a full description of this use case.
TSA launched the “Stay Healthy. Stay Secure.” campaign, which details proactive and protective measures implemented at security checkpoints to make the screening process safer for passengers and our workforce by reducing the potential of exposure to the coronavirus. The campaign includes guidance and resources to help passengers prepare for the security screening process in the COVID environment. A big part of that campaign was the development of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's Airport Hotspot Throughput. This capability determines the domestic airports that have the highest rank of connecting flights during the holiday travel season to help mitigate the spread of COVID-19. This capability is a DHS-developed artificial intelligence model written in Spark/Scala that takes historical non-PII travel data and computes the highest-ranking airports based on the PageRank algorithm. TSA does not make decisions about flight cancellations or airport closures. These decisions are made locally, on a case-by-case basis, by individual airlines, airports, and public health officials. TSA will continuously evaluate and adapt procedures and policies to keep the public and our workforce safe as we learn more about this devastating disease and how it spreads. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: 10/1/2024