# Machine Learning Translation Technology Initiative
## DHS-2024-0097
_Department of Homeland Security_ (DHS) / ICE


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Law & Justice
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The solution will be used to facilitate non-critical communications only. When deployed to production, the solution should not be used alone, absent human quality control, when materials are vital to an individual’s rights or benefits, or when the source materials contain non-literal language (e.g., slang, metaphor), lack clear grammar or structure, contain abbreviations or acronyms, or are overly complex, technical, or wordy. If any interactions indicate the presence of legal or medical issues or a need for greater accuracy, ERO personnel are required to seek additional language assistance via bilingual staff or a professional language line. The solution was first spearheaded by U.S. Coast Guard for maritime usage with the support of DHS Science and Technology Directorate through the Silicon Valley Innovation Program (SVIP). ICE ERO received FY22 funding to initiate the proof of concept with the vendors vetted by USCG and DHS S&T through an interagency agreement. Solutions, in the form of mobile phone applications, are being developed under research and development phases and projected to completely meet ERO’s requirements by January 2026.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The Machine Learning Translation Technology Initiative will offer real-time communication/translation services to assist personnel in providing meaningful access to programs and services for limited English proficient (LEP) noncitizens. AI will be used to provide voice to text, text to voice, and voice to voice translations in at least 21 languages.
ICE’s Enforcement and Removal Operations (ERO) is developing a real-time translation tool to assist staff in communicating with noncitizens who have limited English proficiency. This tool, intended for non-critical conversations, will supplement existing language services contracts by providing real-time capabilities during various touch points in the ICE process. ERO personnel, who regularly interact with individuals who speak little or no English, currently rely on professional interpretation and translation services, which can be slow to secure. The new machine learning (ML) solution aims to facilitate informal communication quickly and efficiently. When deployed, it will not be used alone for materials vital to an individual’s rights or benefits, or when the source materials contain non-literal language, lack clear grammar, or are overly complex.  In such cases, ERO personnel must seek additional language assistance via bilingual staff or professional language lines. 

The initiative, first spearheaded by the U.S. Coast Guard for maritime usage with support from the DHS Science and Technology Directorate through the Silicon Valley Innovation Program (SVIP), received Fiscal Year 2022 funding for proof of concept. Solutions, in the form of mobile phone applications, are being developed under research and development phases and are projected to meet ERO’s requirements by January 2026. The Machine Learning Translation Technology Initiative will offer real-time communication and translation services, providing voice-to-text, text-to-voice, and voice-to-voice translations in at least 21 languages. This technology will enhance the ability of ICE ERO personnel to provide meaningful access to programs and services for limited English proficient (LEP) noncitizens. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 7/1/2022
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 7/1/2022
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: Mylanguage Phase 3 - 70RSAT23T00000030; Kynamics Phase 4 - 70RSAT24T00000029
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: No
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: N/A - The Agency does not own any of the data used to train, fine-tune, and/or evaluate performance of the model(s) used in this use case.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is missing or not available: No documentation exists regarding maintenance, composition, quality, or intended use of the training and evaluation data.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: None
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: No
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: More than 12 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: No
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: No
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: None: This use case does not re-use any internally developed tooling or managed infrastructure from any other AI development efforts within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: No documentation is available: No documentation detailing model performance metrics, model architecture, features and intended use of the models have been created or are currently accessible to other data science teams within the agency.