# Digital Records Manager (DRM) User Assistance Chatbot
## DHS-2024-0101
_[Department of Homeland Security](<../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md>)_ (DHS) / ICE


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: This is an AI records search tool to help investigators more efficiently search and gather information. 

The Digital Records Manager (DRM) User Assistance Chatbot is intended to increase user efficiency by providing answers to commonly asked question without the need to manually refer to documentation or submit a help desk ticket.  A reduction in the volume of submitted help desk tickets is expected as a result.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The outputs of the DRM User Assistance Chatbot will be natural language responses to user questions, based on a custom Knowledge Base of DRM documentation artifacts, supported by the natural language capabilities of the backing LLM.
The Digital Records Manager (DRM) User Assistance Chatbot is an AI tool designed to help investigators efficiently search and gather information. Homeland Security Investigations (HSI), a component DHS, is responsible for investigating, disrupting, and dismantling transnational criminal organizations and terrorist networks that threaten or seek to exploit the customs and immigration laws of the United States. HSI uses the Investigative Case Management (ICM) system to document its investigative activities and has integrated the DRM with ICM to manage digital media associated with investigations. Together, ICM and DRM serve as HSI’s official system of record for investigative case data, ensuring compliance with the National Archives and Records Administration’s mandate for fully electronic records. The HSI DRM User Assistance Chatbot provides users with a consistent location in the DRM interface to pose natural language questions about using the application for case and media management.  It uses a Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) approach to augment natural language responses from a Large Language Model (LLM) with a custom Knowledge Base containing DRM documentation. The Chatbot outputs natural language responses to user questions, guiding them to accomplish specific tasks within the system. This immediate, on-demand assistance emulates help desk support, reducing time-to-completion for many DRM functions and easing the burden on help desk staff. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 9/10/2024