# RAPTOR (Rapid Tactical Operations Reconnaissance)
## DHS-2024-0029
_Department of Homeland Security_ (DHS) / CBP


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Law & Justice
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: RAPTOR will significantly increase domain awareness and the agency’s ability to engage in intelligence-driven operations.  The AI capability acts as a force multiplier and saves personnel from analyzing video feed from a stationary camera and manually noting all boat identifiers, improving their ability to respond quickly to potential threats and gather critical intelligence for law enforcement and border control operations.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Text transcription of vessel registration/documentation data and photographs of the vessel.
Rapid Tactical Operations Reconnaissance (RAPTOR) provides real-time surveillance and reconnaissance capabilities to enhance border security by integrating advanced technologies, such as radar, infrared sensors, and video surveillance, to detect and track suspicious activities along U.S. borders. This use case involves testing the capabilities of a vessel hull reader with AI capabilities that produces a test transcription of vessel registration/documentation data and photographs of the vessel. This system will significantly increase domain awareness, the agency’s ability to engage in intelligence-driven operations and enhance officer safety and capabilities to meet operational mission requirements. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 4/1/2023