# Multi-media Insight Tool
## DHS-2024-0023
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / CBP


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The system enhances CBP's ability to monitor and analyze surveillance footage from existing USBP camera technology, enabling real-time detection of anomalies, and tracking of Items of interest within the video frame. It improves situational awareness, streamlines the identification process, and supports faster, more accurate decision-making, ultimately enhancing security and operational efficiency.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Outputs include real-time alerts on activities that should be watched, visual annotation to identify items of interest.
The capability will leverage multimodal AI models and a cloud-native application programing interface (API) platform to find similar videos, or to search within videos for objects, spoken language, or sounds through recognition. The platform will provide users the ability to more efficiently search within videos for objects, spoken language, or sounds and the ability to rapidly ingest and extract insights for visual and audio data. With the technology, CBP will be able to more easily track and search for individuals, things, events (such as activated lights/sirens) in video, expanding to searching for an entity or event from one video file across multiple. The technology will integrate multimedia (audio and video) from multiple sources and sensors to generate by-source timelines and provide geospatial reference. With the extracted insights from visual and audio data, users will be able to detect simultaneous events across multiple video files and identify common key events where event times are known, inferring timestamps in linked or subsequent videos. Ultimately, the technology will allow for more efficient investigations. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 3/1/2024