# Critical Infrastructure Network Anomaly Detection
## DHS-2024-0065
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / CISA


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: This use case delivers improved internal government tools for hunting and detection of malicious threat actors on critical infrastructure networks. It automates manual data fusion and correlation processes and highlights potential anomalies, allowing CISA analysts to focus more  time on hunting adversaries.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: An interface is provided for analysts to query cybersecurity data, and dashboards are provided with potential cybersecurity alerts, including anomalies detected through predictive models and rule-based heuristics.
CISA is responsible for providing timely technical assistance, risk management support, and incident response capabilities to federal and non-federal critical infrastructure partners. In support of this responsibility, critical infrastructure partners can opt-in to the CyberSentry program, which monitors critical infrastructure networks. The CyberSentry program uses a suite of analytical tools and methods, including unsupervised machine learning algorithms that analyze unlabeled datasets to identify trends, patterns, and anomalies in network data. This AI capability automates manual data fusion and correlation processes, highlighting potential anomalies for CISA analyst review. Analysts are provided with an interface to query cybersecurity data and dashboards that display potential cybersecurity alerts, including anomalies detected through predictive models and rule-based heuristics. This use case delivers improved government tools for CISA analysts to hunt and detect malicious threat actors on critical infrastructure networks. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/1/2022