# Data Tagging and Classification
## DHS-2024-0104
_[Department of Homeland Security](<../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md>)_ (DHS) / ICE


+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) Innovation Lab is developing an analytical platform called the Repository for Analytics in a Virtualized Environment (RAVEn). RAVEn facilitates large, complex analytical projects to support ICE’s mission to enforce and investigate violations of U.S. criminal, civil, and administrative laws. RAVEn also enables users to develop new tools to analyze trends and isolate criminal patterns as HSI mission needs arise. For more information, please read the DHS/ICE/PIA-055 - Privacy Impact Assessment 055 for the Repository for Analytics in a Virtualized Environment (RAVEn).  RAVEn leverages data tagging and classification to do the following: The Email Analytics Tool streamlines how special agents and criminal analysts search, filter, translate, and report on electronic communications evidence and will help investigators more effectively determine the structure and organization of criminal enterprises. The RAVEn - Lead Tracker is a centralized system where agents can send and receive leads and enter outcomes such as arrests and seizures. The goal is for all leads in the agency to be found in one place, rather than in various email inboxes. The overarching goal of Mobile Device Analytics is to improve the efficiency of agents and analysts in identifying pertinent evidence, relationships, and criminal networks from data extracted from mobile devices.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This use case is inactive. Please see the "intended purpose and expected benefits" for a full description of this use case.
The Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) Innovation Lab is developing an analytical platform called the Repository for Analytics in a Virtualized Environment (RAVEn). RAVEn facilitates large, complex analytical projects to support ICE’s mission to enforce and investigate violations of U.S. criminal, civil, and administrative laws. RAVEn also enables users to develop new tools to analyze trends and isolate criminal patterns as HSI mission needs arise. For more information, please read the DHS/ICE/PIA-055 - Privacy Impact Assessment 055 for the Repository for Analytics in a Virtualized Environment (RAVEn).  RAVEn leverages data tagging and classification to do the following: The Email Analytics Tool streamlines how special agents and criminal analysts search, filter, translate, and report on electronic communications evidence and will help investigators more effectively determine the structure and organization of criminal enterprises. The RAVEn - Lead Tracker is a centralized system where agents can send and receive leads and enter outcomes such as arrests and seizures. The goal is for all leads in the agency to be found in one place, rather than in various email inboxes. The overarching goal of Mobile Device Analytics is to improve the efficiency of agents and analysts in identifying pertinent evidence, relationships, and criminal networks from data extracted from mobile devices. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: N/A - Deconsolidation of several use cases