# Traveler Verification Service (TVS)
## DHS-2024-0041
_Department of Homeland Security_ (DHS) / CBP


+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The Traveler Verification Service (TVS) provides CBP a biometric entry/exit system to record arrivals and departures to and from the United States. CBP uses TVS as its backend matching service for all biometric entry and exit operations that use Facial Comparison. CBP creates localized photo "galleries" from images captured during previous entry inspections, photographs from U.S. passports and U.S. visas, and photographs from other DHS encounters. The images are converted into templates and the actual photograph is discarded. The templates are securely stored, and are what make up the TVS gallery. The templates are then used by the Facial Comparison system to verify a traveler's identity when they arrive or depart the U.S. When the traveler presents him or herself for entry, or for exit, the traveler will encounter a camera connected to TVS. This camera matches live images with the existing photo templates from passenger travel documents. Once the camera captures a quality image and the system successfully matches it with historical photo templates of all travelers from the gallery associated with that particular manifest, the traveler proceeds to inspection for admissibility by a CBP Officer, or exits the United States.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This use case is inactive. Please see the "intended purpose and expected benefits" for a full description of this use case.
The Traveler Verification Service (TVS) provides CBP a biometric entry/exit system to record arrivals and departures to and from the United States. CBP uses TVS as its backend matching service for all biometric entry and exit operations that use Facial Comparison. CBP creates localized photo "galleries" from images captured during previous entry inspections, photographs from U.S. passports and U.S. visas, and photographs from other DHS encounters. The images are converted into templates and the actual photograph is discarded. The templates are securely stored, and are what make up the TVS gallery. The templates are then used by the Facial Comparison system to verify a traveler's identity when they arrive or depart the U.S. When the traveler presents him or herself for entry, or for exit, the traveler will encounter a camera connected to TVS. This camera matches live images with the existing photo templates from passenger travel documents. Once the camera captures a quality image and the system successfully matches it with historical photo templates of all travelers from the gallery associated with that particular manifest, the traveler proceeds to inspection for admissibility by a CBP Officer, or exits the United States. For more information, please read the DHS/CBP/PIA-056 - Privacy Impact Assessment for the Traveler Verification Service.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: N/A - Deconsolidation of several use cases