# SEVP Response Center Chatbot - SID (SEVIS Interactive Dialog)
## DHS-2024-0099
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / ICE


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: AI provides SID the ability to understand voices and its deterministic question and answer workflow (1) enables SID to answer routine caller questions without a help desk agent, and (2) when a help desk agent is required, SID will create a ticket with a caller transcript to reduce the burden on the agent. This frees up the human agents to deal with more complex cases and issues with specific records.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: SID answers frequently asked questions from callers. If the SID cannot answer a caller’s question, it turns the caller over to an agent in the response center. The chatbot captures the interaction with the caller and sends the information via an API to Student and Exchange Visitor Program Automated Management System (SEVPAMS).
The Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP) has a response center that answers questions about policy, procedures, and issues with Student and Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS). To provide faster answers, SEVP uses a chatbot named SEVIS Interactive Dialog (SID) to handle common questions from students and officials. If SID cannot help, it connects the caller to a human agent and shares the conversation to save time. Callers include visa holders (F, M, and J nonimmigrants), school and program officials, government users, and members of the public. Many questions are routine inquiries about established policies and procedures. SID is a conversational chatbot that uses voice recognition and Natural Language Understanding to understand and reply to users’ questions with scripted answers. SID is deterministic and does not use generative AI. It answers frequently asked questions but SEVP will not be programmed SID to answer safety- and/or rights-impacting questions. If SID cannot answer a question, it transfers the caller to an agent in the response center. The chatbot captures the interaction with the caller and sends the information via an API to Student and Exchange Visitor Program Automated Management System (SEVPAMS). SEVPAMS creates a tickets, either for calls completed by SID or those handed over to an agent. This allows agents to see the dialog between SID and the caller, reducing the need to repeat information. This frees up the human agents to handle  more complex cases and specific record issues.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 2/6/2023
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 3/6/2023
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: PIID 70CTD020FR0000006/70CTD022FR0000005
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: N/A - The Agency does not own any of the data used to train, fine-tune, and/or evaluate performance of the model(s) used in this use case.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is complete: Documentation exists regarding the maintenance, composition, quality, and intended use of the training and evaluation data, as well as any statistical bias across model features and protected groups.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: None
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: SEVPAMS
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: No
+ **Has the communication been timely**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: Use of existing data platforms: This use case is being developed on existing enterprise data and analytics platforms within the agency rather than procuring additional platforms or SaaS to operate.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Limited documentation for review: Some information regarding the model’s performance on specific benchmarks are available or have been shared with specific stakeholders within the agency.