# Cybersecurity Threat Management, Detection, and Response
## DHS-2024-0112
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / ICE


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Machine Learning (ML) is used to analyze historical ICE cybersecurity data, create activity baselines, and detect anomalous behaviors for alerting. By integrating ML with other advanced analytics and correlation rules, AI identifies patterns indicative of security incidents, enabling SOC analysts to detect and respond to threats more quickly than previously possible.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The output of the analytics will be anomaly detection from patterns in security tool data correlated into alerts for SOC analysts.
The Information Assurance Division (IAD) within ICE is responsible for providing internal Cybersecurity Services to ICE. Within IAD is the Cyber Defense & Intelligence (CD&I) Branch whose mission is operating the ICE Security Operations and Computer Security Incident Response Center. The Branch performs information assurance mitigation, responds to and reports on Information Technology (IT) security incidents, performs systems vulnerability testing, and monitors and evaluates the security performance on sensitive enterprise systems. The CD&I Branch performs monitoring and analysis on aggregate ICE cybersecurity data to identify and respond to anomalous and malicious activity. This data is limited to IT security operations and is not used to conduct AI-enabled workplace surveillance or automated personnel management. CD&I uses several AI-enabled cybersecurity tools to analyze this data. Machine learning (ML) models, such as classification and regression models, are used to analyze historical data and detect emerging threats through pattern recognition. Additional capabilities include the identification of real-time threats by using algorithms and ML from a vast database of known threats and patterns during continuous monitoring of ICE cybersecurity data. This includes recognizing phishing patterns, malware signatures, or abnormal network traffic patterns across a variety of tools. This provides security analysts with modern tools to identify and respond to threats much more quickly than previously possible, minimizing potential damage to systems and data.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 5/21/2020
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 9/17/2020
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 3/16/2021
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed in-house.
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: No
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: No
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: N/A - The Agency does not own any of the data used to train, fine-tune, and/or evaluate performance of the model(s) used in this use case.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is missing or not available: No documentation exists regarding maintenance, composition, quality, or intended use of the training and evaluation data.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: None
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: No
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: No – agency does not have access to source code.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: Xploitation Platform Leveraging Offensive Information Technology, Phishing Defense Solution, Audit Log Management Solution (ALMS), Endpoint Detection and Response, EMVEC
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: No
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: No
+ **Has the communication been timely**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: None: This use case does not re-use any internally developed tooling or managed infrastructure from any other AI development efforts within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: No documentation is available: No documentation detailing model performance metrics, model architecture, features and intended use of the models have been created or are currently accessible to other data science teams within the agency.