# User Entity and Behavior Analytics (UEBA) for Security Operations (SecOps) Anomaly Identification
## DHS-2024-0156
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / USCIS


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: UEBA's purpose is to review USCIS system logs to determine when an entity is performing actions that are anomalous. An entity can be classified as a workstation, server or an internal USCIS system account. The UEBA ingests logs from systems to perform analytics based off of models that are manually created and maintained. UEBA uses the models to apply a risk score to the entity which the risk score is then used to create a case (or ticket) for Security Operations analyst review. The AI reviews the action of the analyst to adjust the risk scoring for future events. Output would assist in prioritizing cyber events for further manual investigation.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Output of the Machine Learning is an alert with all artifacts for the SOC to investigate. The alert is used as a recommendation to prioritize specific investigations in the SOC ticket queue.
User Entity and Behavior Analytics (UEBA) assists USCIS Security Operations (SecOps) in identifying behavioral anomalies that most likely indicate malicious intent or heightened risk associated with user identities and endpoint hosts accessing the USCIS network. The analytics provide risk scoring, which helps USCIS SecOps to prioritize highest risk incidents first. The tool identifies credential compromise, risky behavior, violations of the rules of behavior, and other user behavior anomalies that could indicate the presence of an advanced persistent threat. UBEA is enhanced by machine learning models that can adapt to its environment and identify relevant threats, thereby improving the productivity of the USCIS Security Operations Center (SOC). 

UEBA reviews USCIS system logs to determine when an entity, such as a workstation, server, or internal USCIS system account, is performing actions that are anomalous.  The UEBA ingests logs from systems to perform analytics based on manually created and maintained models. These models  apply a risk score to the entity, which is then used to create a case (or ticket) for SecOps analyst to review. The AI reviews the actions of the analysts to adjust the risk scoring for future events, assisting in prioritizing cyber events for further manual investigation. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 8/18/2023
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 8/18/2023
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: 70SBUR24F00000168
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: No
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: Data used to tune models is USCIS internal system logs.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is widely available: Documentation is not only complete, but is widely accessible within the agency, and has an owner and a regular update cadence.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: None
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: ESS
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: 6-12 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: None: This use case does not re-use any internally developed tooling or managed infrastructure from any other AI development efforts within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Limited documentation for review: Some information regarding the model’s performance on specific benchmarks are available or have been shared with specific stakeholders within the agency.