# Advanced Analytic Enabled Forensic Investigation
## DHS-2024-0069
_Department of Homeland Security_ (DHS) / CISA


+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: CISA deploys forensic specialists to analyze cyber events at Federal Civilian Executive Branch (FCEB) departments and agencies, as well as other State, Local, Tribal, Territorial, and Critical Infrastructure partners. Forensic analysts can utilize advanced analytic tooling, in the form of Artificial Intelligence (AI) implementations, to better understand anomalies and potential threats. This can be further supported by the development of AI-assisted agents. Analysts can interact with such agents in a conversational manner to produce the input needed for complex search queries for behaviors or patterns in traffic that the agent then rapidly creates. Such tooling allows forensic specialists the capabilities to comb through event data in an automated fashion with mathematically and probabilistically based models to ensure high-fidelity anomalies are detected in a timely manner.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This use case is inactive. Please see the "intended purpose and expected benefits" for a full description of this use case.
CISA deploys forensic specialists to analyze cyber events at Federal Civilian Executive Branch (FCEB) departments and agencies, as well as other State, Local, Tribal, Territorial, and Critical Infrastructure partners. Forensic analysts can utilize advanced analytic tooling, in the form of Artificial Intelligence (AI) implementations, to better understand anomalies and potential threats. This can be further supported by the development of AI-assisted agents. Analysts can interact with such agents in a conversational manner to produce the input needed for complex search queries for behaviors or patterns in traffic that the agent then rapidly creates. Such tooling allows forensic specialists the capabilities to comb through event data in an automated fashion with mathematically and probabilistically based models to ensure high-fidelity anomalies are detected in a timely manner. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/1/2022
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: N/A - Use case is in a pre-initation phase.