# Intelligent Document Processing for Workflow Automation
## DHS-2024-0111
_Department of Homeland Security_ (DHS) / ICE


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Business units within ICE leverage these services to automate repeatable, time-consuming processes such as invoice processing, and form entry validation and extraction. This platform will provide Optical Character Recognition and machine learning models to verify, extract, and classify information from ICE forms. Using AI to provide information extraction for these processes saves ICE personnel a significant amount of time while improving data quality and enabling automation.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This platform will provide Optical Character Recognition and machine learning models to verify, extract, and classify information from ICE forms.
ICE processes forms of all types across its Program Offices, requiring a significant amount of time to manually validate and extract form data and enter it into a variety of systems. ICE uses a Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) platform and cloud services to provide Robotic Process Automation (RPA) and AI-based intelligent document processing capabilities to the enterprise. Business units within ICE leverage these services to automate repeatable, time-consuming processes such as invoice processing, and form entry validation and extraction. This platform will provide Optical Character Recognition and machine learning models to verify, extract, and classify information from ICE forms such as contract invoices, the Disability Accommodation Notification (DAN) form, Notices to Appear (NTA), email inquiries to the Office of the Inspector General, the Sexual Abuse or Assault Incident Review form, Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP) system access requests, the Notice to Student or Exchange Visitor (I-515) form, and the Training Plan for STEM OPT Students (I-983) form. AI is used during these automations to verify and extract information from the forms only and does not change data or make decisions based on the data. Additional workflow automations will use this data for follow-on actions such as processing an invoice, creating a case, or entering data into another system, depending on the purpose of the automation. The platform also includes the ability to create a feedback loop to continuously improve the model's accuracy by retraining it with new, relevant data. Using AI to provide information extraction for these processes saves ICE personnel a significant amount of time while improving data quality and enabling automation.  
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 1/1/2019
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 1/1/2019
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 6/1/2019
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: 70CTD021FR0000248; 70CDCR24FR0000048; 70CMSD21FR0000169; 70CTD021FR0000248; 70CTD023FR0000003; 70CTD020FR0000006; 70CTD022FR0000005
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: ICE’s document understanding platforms provide out-of-the box models to verify and/or extract information from a variety of document types. These platforms also include the ability to create an ML feedback loop to tailor the models to try to improve the accuracy in extracting data fields from multiple document types. In this scenario, ICE would fine-tune the document understanding model using the documents submitted to the understanding workflow.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is missing or not available: No documentation exists regarding maintenance, composition, quality, or intended use of the training and evaluation data.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: None
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: Yes – agency has access to source code, but it is not public.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: UiPath Suite, Azure AI Document Intelligence
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: More than 12 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: Use of existing data platforms: This use case is being developed on existing enterprise data and analytics platforms within the agency rather than procuring additional platforms or SaaS to operate.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: No documentation is available: No documentation detailing model performance metrics, model architecture, features and intended use of the models have been created or are currently accessible to other data science teams within the agency.