# TSA Contact Center Virtual Assistant
## DHS-2024-0141
_[Department of Homeland Security](<../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md>)_ (DHS) / TSA


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The three goals for TSA’s virtual assistant are:  1) Improve Ease / Efficiency – deliver timely, accurate responses to customers within / outside of TCC operational hours; 2) Improve Effectiveness – collect new customer insights to help drive agency improvements; 3) Fiscal Responsibility – leverage automation to meet increasing demand without the need for additional resources.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: TSA’s virtual assistant, as a Predictive AI tool, will not be able to create and provide original content to customers.  It will be limited to providing responses to customer inquiries based on the existing content in the TCC’s knowledge library.  However, it will record transactional data related to these customer inquiries (e.g., customer inputs, assistant outputs, topic classifications, etc.).

TSA’s virtual assistant will create transactional data regarding customer inquiries in a consistent manner to our existing email and phone channels.  TSA uses this transactional data to guide customer experience improvement efforts.  This data offers TSA insights into:  what is working well, where the pain points are, where to improve public information, and what services are most requested.
The Transportation Security Administration (TSA) Contact Center Virtual Assistant is an AI chat-bot designed to improve customer experience and increase efficiency on the TSA.gov website. An AI-powered virtual assistant serves as the initial point of contact for customers, using predictive AI or natural language processing (NLP), to answer routine questions. Customer service agents will remain available and will not be replaced by the virtual assistant. 

The three goals for TSA’s virtual assistant are: (1) improve ease of access and increase efficiency be delivering timely, accurate responses to customers within and outside of the TSA Contact Center’s (TCC’s) operational hours; (2) improve effectiveness by collecting new customer insights to help drive agency improvements; and (3) improve fiscal responsibility by leveraging automation to meet increasing demand without the need for additional resources. 

TSA’s virtual assistant, as a predictive AI tool, will not be able to create and provide original content to customers. It will be limited to providing responses to customer inquiries based on the existing content in the TCC’s knowledge library. However, it will record transactional data related to these customer inquiries (e.g., customer inputs, assistant outputs, topic classifications, etc.). TSA’s virtual assistant will create transactional data regarding customer inquiries in a consistent manner to our existing email and phone channels. TSA uses this transactional data to guide customer experience improvement efforts. This data offers TSA insights into what is working well, where the pain points are, where to improve public information, and what services are most requested. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 1/10/2024
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 8/1/2024
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with both contracting and in-house resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: 70T01024F5600N002
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: Yes
+ **Identification of the High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) that the AI use case supports**: Transportation Security Administration – DHS
+ **Identification of the specific public-facing service that the AI use case supports**: Getting help from TSA
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: TSA.gov FAQs (publicly available), TSA Contact Center (TCC) inquiry data (e.g. why customers contacted us; how we responded to them)(not pubicly available), TCC knowledge library (i.e. approved response language; currently used by TCC agents when responding to customers via email and phone channels)(not publicly available; but derived from TSA.gov FAQs).
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is missing or not available: No documentation exists regarding maintenance, composition, quality, or intended use of the training and evaluation data.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: None
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: Customer Service Center - Salesforce
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: No
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: None: This use case does not re-use any internally developed tooling or managed infrastructure from any other AI development efforts within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: No documentation is available: No documentation detailing model performance metrics, model architecture, features and intended use of the models have been created or are currently accessible to other data science teams within the agency.