# Incident Management Workforce Deployment Model (depmod)
## DHS-2024-0092
_Department of Homeland Security_ (DHS) / FEMA


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The model is able to extract patterns from big data, combine these patterns in a way that mirrors a real-world process, and simulate likely outcomes to yield predictions in the form of relatable, mission-centric, metrics.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The system primarily outputs predictions that can then (optionally) be summarized and communicated as recommendations.
The Incident Management Workforce Deployment Model helps predict how FEMA's incident management team might respond to disasters. It uses historical data to plan staffing needs but does not directly decide who gets staffed.  The model is used to make predictions about how the incident management (IM) workforce could respond to the Stafford Act incidents. A key area of application is the setting of IM workforce staffing levels (i.e., force structure). The model was constructed in R and delivered as an R package. The model uses various kinds of statistical inference and machine learning methods (i.e., multinomial regression, Bayesian multi-level modeling, etc.).  This use case leverages historic data on the deployment of FEMA personnel to anticipate requirements for disaster staffing and supporting assessments for overall readiness. It does not leverage demographic data, nor is it used to directly inform staffing decisions.  It is purely used for planning and assessment purposes.  

The model is able to extract patterns from big data, combine these patterns in a way that mirrors a real-world process, and simulate likely outcomes to yield predictions in the form of relatable, mission-centric metrics. 

The system primarily outputs predictions that can then (optionally) be summarized and communicated as recommendations. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 4/1/2021
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 8/1/2021
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 2/1/2022
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with both contracting and in-house resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: HHSN316201200112W
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: No
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: The Deployment Tracking System (DTS) is currently the primary data source. It provides a historical record of IM workforce deployments that can be validated for accuracy and used for model training and prediction.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is complete: Documentation exists regarding the maintenance, composition, quality, and intended use of the training and evaluation data, as well as any statistical bias across model features and protected groups.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: None
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: Yes – agency has access to source code, but it is not public.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: No
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: Use of existing data platforms: This use case is being developed on existing enterprise data and analytics platforms within the agency rather than procuring additional platforms or SaaS to operate.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Documentation has been developed: Complete documentation detailing model performance across a range of benchmarks, architecture, relevant features and information regarding the appropriate use of the model for predictive tasks has been created.