# Autonomous Surveillance Tower (AST)
## DHS-2024-0057
_Department of Homeland Security_ (DHS) / CBP


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Law & Justice
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: AST machine learning assisted system is augmenting the U.S. Border Patrol by enhancing the capabiltiies of individual users when carrying out the domain awareness mission. 
The expected benefit is to have ability of single person to monitor magnitude greater area than could be done with conventional CCTV or human surveillance. The ultimate outcome for the agency and the public is greater availability of the agents to solve and address more complex tasks and allow for better strategic/tactical deployment of existing resources and personnel.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The AI provides alerts when it detects the presence of an IoI (i.e., persons, vehicles, animals) in the image frame.  With regard to persons, this computer vision application is trained to determine if the object in the image frame is a person with a certain of level of confidence and not another object that may be shaped similarly to a person.  After the alert of a detection, a trained agent or user, reviews the image to identify and classify the activity taking place.  The AI merely alerts to the presence of an item it was trained to detect. This is not a biometric system and does not identify or track specific individuals.
The ASTs are lawfully deployed technologies used to support the U.S. Border Patrol mission between Ports of Entry.  ASTs alert when detecting the presence of an IoI that the AI model was trained to detect (i.e., persons, vehicles, animals) in the image frame. When an IoI is detected in monitored areas, the information is sent as a notification to the user interface which generates an audible alert, a pop-up, and highlights the IoI in a green rectangle on the picture or video. A trained CBP agent or user, reviews the image to identify and classify the activity taking place. The AI merely alerts to the presence of an item it was trained to detect. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/1/2018
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 10/1/2019
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 1/1/2020
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with both contracting and in-house resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: 70B02C20D00000019
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: No
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Other
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the rights datasets to begin model development**: Program created its own new data through new inputs either in real world or in real world simulated scenarios
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: Meta-data and data created by CBP. Generally comprised of agent adjudications of autonomous sensory inputs of items of interests by the system.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation has been partially completed: Some documentation exists (detailing the composition and any statistical bias or measurement skew for training and evaluation purposes), but documentation took place within this use case’s development.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: None
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: No – agency does not have access to source code.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: Autonomous Surveillance Towers
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: None: This use case does not re-use any internally developed tooling or managed infrastructure from any other AI development efforts within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Documentation has been developed: Complete documentation detailing model performance across a range of benchmarks, architecture, relevant features and information regarding the appropriate use of the model for predictive tasks has been created.