# Machine Translation
(Previously Language Translator)
## DHS-2024-0106
_Department of Homeland Security_ (DHS) / ICE


+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The Rapid Analysis and Visualization Engine for Reporting (RAVEn) platform provides capabilities to upload data that may contain text in languages other than English. To support the agent/analyst analysis of the ingested data as well as to provide for the means to standardize searches across RAVEn data sources, RAVEn provides language translation capabilities to create text conversions between the original language and English. Data translation can be performed on ingest or on an ad hoc basis. Solution will provide translation support of, at minimum, plain text, word documents, and portable document formats using Natural Language Processing and machine learning.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This use case is inactive. Please see the "intended purpose and expected benefits" for a full description of this use case.
The Rapid Analysis and Visualization Engine for Reporting (RAVEn) platform provides capabilities to upload data that may contain text in languages other than English. To support the agent/analyst analysis of the ingested data as well as to provide for the means to standardize searches across RAVEn data sources, RAVEn provides language translation capabilities to create text conversions between the original language and English. Data translation can be performed on ingest or on an ad hoc basis. Solution will provide translation support of, at minimum, plain text, word documents, and portable document formats using Natural Language Processing and machine learning. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 2/1/2021
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 8/1/2019
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 8/1/2022
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: N/A -Consolidated into another use case.