# USCIS  Consular Consolidated Database (CCD) Facial Recognition (FR) On Demand Report (VISA Only)
## DHS-2024-0166
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / USCIS


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: USCIS uses the Facial Recognition (FR) on Demand report (Visa only) to combat fraud by benefit applicants whose fingerprints are not in IDENT but who may have photos in the Department of State's (DoS) Consular Consolidated Database (CCD) that predate the fingerprinting of visa applicants.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Match or no match response.
USCIS uses the Facial Recognition (FR) on Demand report (Visa only) to combat fraud by benefit applicants whose fingerprints are not in IDENT but who may have photos in the Department of State's (DoS) Consular Consolidated Database (CCD) that predate the fingerprinting of visa applicants.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Rights-Impacting
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 4/1/2019
+ **Identification of the reasonably foreseeable risks from using the AI use case, to include the risk of inequitable outcomes for individuals. This can be informed by publicly known risks identified in similar use cases or contexts. Examples of such risks include at least physical injury, emotional/psychological injury, opportunity loss, economic loss, privacy loss, environmental impact, or civil rights and civil liberties impact**: CCD is operated by the DoS Bureau of Consular Affairs. DHS works closely with DoS on risks and mitigations.