# CBP Careers Bot - Leo
## DHS-2024-0014
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / CBP


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Visitors to the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) careers website can engage with a decision-tree based chat bot to help access CBP career related information and drive users to take the next action such as contacting a recruiter, attending a career event, or applying for a CBP career to help access CBP career related information and drive users to take the next action. The addition of Natural Language Processing (NLP)-driven responses will allow for more natural, conversational interactions to increase usability and accuracy in provided information.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The AI-chatbot will provide natural language responses to user queries.
Visitors to careers.cbp.gov can engage with a decision-tree based chat bot to help access CBP career related information and drive users to take the next action such as contacting a recruiter, attending a career event, or apply for a CBP Career. This bot will be enhanced over the next year to include responses driven by natural language processing (NLP) for predetermined intents. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 1/1/2023