# I-765 - USCIS Face Capture Mobile App
## DHS-2024-0157
_[Department of Homeland Security](../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md)_ (DHS) / USCIS


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Law & Justice
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: This will allow the user to complete the biometric verification requirement without having to attend an appointment at am Applicant Support Center. This reduces the burden on the beneficiary as well as reducing demands on USCIS Applicant Service Center resources.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Face detection locates human faces in visual media such as digital images or video. When a face is detected it has an associated position, size, and orientation; and it can be searched for landmarks such as the eyes and nose which are returned as numerical values. 

ELIS Photo Validation service sends response back to user based on the pre-defined quality checks if the uploaded photo meets USCIS requirements. I-765 - USCIS Facial Recognition through IDENT (1:1 Face Recognition/Validation) returns a match or no match response from IDENT.
Utilizing facial capture in the mobile application reduces the burden on both Application Support Centers and customers by providing an alternative method for capturing card-quality photographs used for document production. Application Support Center appointments are limited to work hours, often requiring applicants to take time off work. In some regions, applicants may need to travel long distances to reach an application support center and inclement weather can make attending appointments difficult. The mobile application enables photograph collection without the need for a biometrics appointment, enhancing processing efficiency for adjudicators and offering greater convenience for applicants. This will allow the user to complete the biometric verification requirement without having to attend an appointment at an Applicant Support Center. This reduces the burden on the beneficiary and decreases demands on USCIS Applicant Support Center resources. 

Face detection locates human faces in visual media such as digital images or video. When a face is detected, it has an associated position, size, and orientation; it can also be searched for landmarks such as the eyes and nose, which are returned as numerical values. The ELIS Photo Validation service sends a response back to the user based on predefined quality checks to determine if the uploaded photo meets USCIS requirements. The I-765 - USCIS Facial Recognition through IDENT (1:1 Face Recognition/Validation) returns a match or no match response from IDENT. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Rights-Impacting
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/1/2023
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 10/1/2023
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: 70SBUR23F00000138
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: Yes
+ **Identification of the High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) that the AI use case supports**: U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services – DHS
+ **Identification of the specific public-facing service that the AI use case supports**: Enable increased self-service through an expansion of digital costumer service tools
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Other
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the rights datasets to begin model development**: The applications is utilizing an ML model trained by commercial providers and thus data sets were not required.
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: N/A - The Agency does not own any data used to train, fine-tune, or evaluate the use case.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is complete: Documentation exists regarding the maintenance, composition, quality, and intended use of the training and evaluation data, as well as any statistical bias across model features and protected groups.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: Race/Ethnicity,Sex/Gender,Age
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: No
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: 6-12 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: No
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Other
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: Re-use production level code from a different use-case: This use case re-uses production level code and/or internally developed code libraries for model development from existing AI systems or repositories inside the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Limited documentation for review: Some information regarding the model’s performance on specific benchmarks are available or have been shared with specific stakeholders within the agency.