# I-485 Family Matching
## DHS-2024-0170
_Department of Homeland Security_ (DHS) / USCIS


+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: I-485 Family Matching is designed to create models to match family members to underlying I-485 petitions. The underlying immigrant petition defines if the I-485 is employment-based or family-based. It also has information about the visa classification and priority date which, when compared against the Department of State’s monthly Visa Bulletin, helps predict visa usage. It is difficult to match an I-485 to its underlying immigrant petition, because the only available field on which to match is the Alien-number (A-number). This number is not always present on the immigrant petition, and name/date of birth matching is not as reliable.  The goal of I-485 Family Matching is to leverage AI to create connections more confidently between petitioners and their families based on limited data.  Additionally, it was intended to help identify and group I485s filed by family members, as well as gather up the many ancillary forms they may have been pending (such as I765, I131). Similar to immigrant petition matching, it can be difficult to match up I485s filed by family members. In these cases, the only similar fields are a common address. Efforts have been made in the past to identify family members by address, but it is effective only to a point. This use case explored the technical feasibility of using an AI model to help make working with this data more reliable (as well as group individual petitioners, their families, and other helpful associated data together for faster and more accurate processing).  Work on this use case did not go beyond ideation and no AI model was built (and no output was rendered) after the proof-of-concept established that the desired end-state was infeasible with the technology available at that time.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This use case is inactive. Please see the "intended purpose and expected benefits" for a full description of this use case.
I-485 Family Matching is designed to create models to match family members to underlying I-485 petitions. The underlying immigrant petition defines if the I-485 is employment-based or family-based. It also has information about the visa classification and priority date which, when compared against the Department of State’s monthly Visa Bulletin, helps predict visa usage. It is difficult to match an I-485 to its underlying immigrant petition, because the only available field on which to match is the Alien-number (A-number). This number is not always present on the immigrant petition, and name/date of birth matching is not as reliable.  The goal of I-485 Family Matching is to leverage AI to create connections more confidently between petitioners and their families based on limited data.  Additionally, it was intended to help identify and group I485s filed by family members, as well as gather up the many ancillary forms they may have been pending (such as I765, I131). Similar to immigrant petition matching, it can be difficult to match up I485s filed by family members. In these cases, the only similar fields are a common address. Efforts have been made in the past to identify family members by address, but it is effective only to a point. This use case explored the technical feasibility of using an AI model to help make working with this data more reliable (as well as group individual petitioners, their families, and other helpful associated data together for faster and more accurate processing).  Work on this use case did not go beyond ideation and no AI model was built (and no output was rendered) after the proof-of-concept established that the desired end-state was infeasible with the technology available at that time. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 1/1/2023
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 1/1/2023
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: N/A - This use case was never initiated and never formally retired.