# Open-Source News Aggregation
## DHS-2024-0034
_[Department of Homeland Security](<../3_agency/Department of Homeland Security.md>)_ (DHS) / CBP


+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The platform enables users to make better decisions faster by identifying and forecasting emerging events on a global scale to mitigate risk, recognize threats, greatly enhance indications and warnings, and provide predictive intelligence capabilities. The AI/ML models enable rapid access to automated intelligence assessments by fusing, processing, exploiting and analyzing open sources of data (including news, social media, economic indicators, governance indicators, travel warnings, weather and other sources). This system is an immediate and substantial force multiplier that shifts the traditional approach of monitoring and assessing the operational environment to focus on the forecast of the future geopolitical, socio, and economic environment.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This use case is inactive. Please see the "intended purpose and expected benefits" for a full description of this use case.
The platform enables users to make better decisions faster by identifying and forecasting emerging events on a global scale to mitigate risk, recognize threats, greatly enhance indications and warnings, and provide predictive intelligence capabilities. The AI/ML models enable rapid access to automated intelligence assessments by fusing, processing, exploiting and analyzing open sources of data (including news, social media, economic indicators, governance indicators, travel warnings, weather and other sources). This system is an immediate and substantial force multiplier that shifts the traditional approach of monitoring and assessing the operational environment to focus on the forecast of the future geopolitical, socio, and economic environment. 
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: 10/1/2024