## DOC-2024-0031
+ **Title of the AI use case:**: Grammarly
+ **Agency responsible for the AI use case:**: Department of Commerce
+ **Agency abbreviation:**: DOC
+ **Specific organization(s) within the agency responsible for the AI use case:**: NIST - National Institute of Science and Technology
+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case:**: Education & Workforce
+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case:**: 
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B:**: Improving the quality of written communications using AI tools.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public:**: Improving the quality of written communications, idea generation, refine tone and style.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc:**: Grammar, punctuation, style improvements, content generation
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC):**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined:**: 2/3/2023
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began:**: 6/16/2023
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use:**: 1/17/2024
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement:**: 
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both:**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case:**: NNG15SC82B
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/:**: No
+ **Identification of the High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) that the AI use case supports:**: 
+ **Identification of the specific public-facing service that the AI use case supports:**: 
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public:**: No
+ **Description of how the agency is ensuring that this AI use case is compliant with Information Quality Act guidelines and OMB Memorandum M-19-15, if applicable:**: 
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130:**: No
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case:**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development:**: No
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the rights datasets to begin model development:**: 
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor:**: 
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task:**: Documentation is missing or not available: No documentation exists regarding maintenance, composition, quality, or intended use of the training and evaluation data.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any:**: Other
+ **Identification of the other demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any:**: Does not use any demographic variables.
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code:**: No
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case:**: No – agency does not have access to source code.
+ **Link to publicly available source code for the AI use case, if available, in alignment with OMB Memorandum M-24-10’s section on sharing:**: 
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO:**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO:**: GrammarlyGo
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments:**: 
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency:**: No
+ **Explanation for whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency:**: 
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models:**: Other
+ **Whether communication regarding the provisioning of requested resources for the AI use case has been timely:**: There is a process in place to request a Grammarly account. GrammarlyGo does not use our data for training.
+ **:**: Other
+ **Explanation for whether communication regarding the provisioning of requested resources for the AI use case has been timely:**: Grammarly is a cloud app that we support and provision accounts for those that request a license
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development:**: None: This use case does not re-use any internally developed tooling or managed infrastructure from any other AI development efforts within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency:**: No documentation is available: No documentation detailing model performance metrics, model architecture, features and intended use of the models have been created or are currently accessible to other data science teams within the agency.
+ **Whether the agency requested an extension for this AI use case, in response to the CAIO’s request, of up to one year for the minimum requirements outlined in Section 5 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: No – Agency did not request an extension for this use case.
+ **Whether an AI impact assessment for the AI use case has been completed, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(A) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. This assessment should document at least the intended purpose for the AI and its expected benefits, the potential risks of using the AI, and the quality and appropriateness of the relevant data:**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case has been tested for performance in a real-world environment to understand its potential impact on individual(s) or communities, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(B) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: No testing: No testing of the model to simulate performance in an operational environment has been conducted thus far.
+ **Identification of the reasonably foreseeable risks from using the AI use case, to include the risk of inequitable outcomes for individuals. This can be informed by publicly known risks identified in similar use cases or contexts. Examples of such risks include at least physical injury, emotional/psychological injury, opportunity loss, economic loss, privacy loss, environmental impact, or civil rights and civil liberties impact:**: Risks to NIST were determined through Assessment and Authorization process by NIST Security Control Assessors. They documented that the most significant risk to NIST is moderate-level data going to a cloud vendor that does not have a FedRAMP authorized package and is not currently in process to become FedRAMP. Grammarly does not meet Department of Commerce Security and Privacy Assessment and Authorization Handbook requirements. There are deficiencies restricting staff to US only personnel, specific documentation about use of FIPS 140-2 validated encryption, TIC 2.0 architecture implementation, and Grammarly is unable to send logs to DOC SIEM tools.

This is mitigated in multiple ways:
•	Grammarly has multiple independent assessments, including a SOC 2 Type II assessment.
•	Grammarly provided other internal security documentation for review.
•	NIST data is only used by Grammarly to perform grammar recommendations. All data is purged from Grammarly servers within 3 hours.
•	NIST data is not used for training purposes.
•	Grammarly uses Amazon Web services for its infrastructure, which has FedRAMP Moderate authorization.
•	Grammarly uses Microsoft Azure AI for AI recommendations, which has FedRAMP High authorization.

Other key risks are as follows: 

•	Logins to Grammarly are logged and viewable by administrators, but the actual usage of Grammarly by the user is not logged. This is mitigated by Grammarly’s limited built-in data loss prevention (DLP) that is enabled. This prevents the following data types from going up to Grammarly for analysis: email addresses, URLs, phone numbers, credit card numbers, and Social Security numbers.
+ **Whether an independent evaluation of the AI use case has been conducted through the CAIO, an agency AI oversight board, or other appropriate agency office with existing test and evaluation responsibilities, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(C) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. The independent reviewing authority must not have been directly involved in the AI system’s development:**: Yes – by another appropriate agency office that was not directly involved in the system’s development
+ **Whether there’s an established process for monitoring performance of the AI system’s functionality and changes to its impact on rights and/or safety, including, if relevant, the risk of AI-enabled discrimination, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(D) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: Automated and Regularly Scheduled Updates: Some aspects of the plan to monitor the AI system post-deployment are automated including re-training of models after detecting drift; however, data science teams are still significantly involved in the monitoring and re-deployment process.
+ **Whether the agency has determined that the AI can carry out its individual core decisions or actions that could result in a significant impact on rights and safety without direct human involvement. The answer should not be “yes” if humans are not reviewing individual decisions and are only overseeing or reviewing the performance of the system in general:**: Yes - All individual decisions or actions are automated and may be rendered without direct human interaction.
+ **How the agency is providing reasonable and timely notice regarding the use of AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(I) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: 
+ **How the agency is providing reasonable and timely notice regarding the use of AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(I) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: Other
+ **Whether the AI use case significantly influences the outcome of an adverse decision or action, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(D) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Examples include the denial of benefits or deeming a transaction fraudulent:**: Training was provided to end users on how to use the Grammarly application. If users have any questions, they submit a ticket through ServiceNow.
+ **How the agency has assessed whether there are significant disparities in the AI’s performance across demographic groups, including in the AI’s real-world deployment, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(A) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: No
+ **How the agency has consulted affected groups, including underserved communities, in the design, development, and use of the AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(B) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: The model provides grammar and phrasing recommendations. All staff are presumed to be English subject matter experts and do not need to accept any proposed response from Grammarly. Staff are advised that they are ultimately responsible for the content of their responses.
+ **How the agency has consulted affected groups, including underserved communities, in the design, development, and use of the AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(B) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: None of the above
+ **How the agency has consulted affected groups, including underserved communities, in the design, development, and use of the AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(B) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: 
+ **Whether the agency has established a fallback and escalation process, which may include reverting to manual human processes, in the event that an impacted individual would like to appeal or contest an AI system’s outcome, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(E) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: Yes
+ **Why the agency does not have an established fallback and escalation process:**: 
+ **Whether the agency has established an opt-out mechanism, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(F) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has established an opt-out mechanism, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(F) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: 