# FirstNet Authority OCIO MS CoPilot Project
## DOC-2024-0021
_Department of Commerce_ (DOC) / FIRSTNET - First Responder Network Authority


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Improving the quality of written communications using AI tools.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Microsoft 365 Copilot can improve content creation and boost user productivity experience.  Microsoft 365 Copilot in the Microsoft Office apps will likely assist in creating content more quickly and improving existing content.  This helps the users to convey their ideas with reduced effort and unlocks the value of existing organization information and knowledge.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Text and/or graphics generated by user-input.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is missing or not available: No documentation exists regarding maintenance, composition, quality, or intended use of the training and evaluation data.