# Real Time Classification for the Economic Census
## DOC-2024-0004
_[Department of Commerce](../3_agency/Department of Commerce.md)_ (DOC) / CENSUS - U.S. Census Bureau


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Other
+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Classification
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Two ML models (BEACON and SINCT) are applied in this Economic Census use case to perform real-time classification of Primary Business Activity (PBA), or NAICS, and Products, or NAPCS. For instance, in the 2017 Economic Census, if respondents could not identify their NAICS or NAPCS codes, they were able to provide a short, open-ended description of their business and the products and services they offer, referred to as “write-ins”. There were nearly 400,000 NAICS write-ins and 1,000,000 NAPCS write-ins, out of 3 million and 18 million total reported NAICS and NAPCS codes, respectively. While the number of write-ins is a small share of the total number of reported NAICS and NAPCS codes, these write-ins were previously assigned to a valid code by analysts using manual processes. BEACON and SINCT were developed to improve classification accuracy and reduce processing time and costs by providing real-time feedback to respondents given the business description they provide. In the 2022 Economic Census, as a result of BEACON and SINCT, NAICS and NAPCS write-ins were reduced by 58% and 78% to 168,000 and 220,000 write-ins, respectively.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: For PBA code reporting, the respondent has an initial set of NAICS codes to choose from.  If the respondent selects "Other" with a write-in, an API call to BEACON returns predictive results from the model with a ranked list of predicted NAICS options from which to select.  For Products, if the respondent selects to "Add products", an API call to SINCT provides predictive results of products to add. In both cases, the ML model recommends codes based on scoring attributes, and the respondent is able to choose a relevant NAICS or NAPCS code from those results.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 1/1/2023