# Hanford Ai Liaison
## DOE-2024-0037
_[Department of Energy](../3_agency/Department of Energy.md)_ (DOE) / RL - Hanford - Richland Operations Office - Hanford (EM)


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The purpose of the Hanford Ai Liaison tool is to provide a prompt to text tool that will allow users to ask questions against the chat and receive generative responses based on model training. The benefits of this AI are that it provides a mitigation for users that were using similar funtionality in external ChatGPT tools that were available to AI users and then blocked. It also provides a safe, secure enviroment for a ChatGPT experience where our prompts will not be used to train models in external system and our prompt and document data does not leave our accedidation boundary.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The system outputs text respones from user prompts using generative, pre-trained, transformer logic large language modeling (GPT LLM)
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 4/23/2024
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 5/14/2024
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 10/28/2024
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: 89303320DEM000031
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: No
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: No
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: No agency-owned data is used in this model. Our Data does not train the models.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is complete: Documentation exists regarding the maintenance, composition, quality, and intended use of the training and evaluation data, as well as any statistical bias across model features and protected groups.
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: No – agency does not have access to source code.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: Microsoft Azure OpenAI
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: Use of existing data platforms: This use case is being developed on existing enterprise data and analytics platforms within the agency rather than procuring additional platforms or SaaS to operate.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Limited documentation for review: Some information regarding the model’s performance on specific benchmarks are available or have been shared with specific stakeholders within the agency.
+ **Whether the agency requested an extension for this AI use case, in response to the CAIO’s request, of up to one year for the minimum requirements outlined in Section 5 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: No – Agency did not request an extension for this use case.
+ **Whether an AI impact assessment for the AI use case has been completed, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(A) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. This assessment should document at least the intended purpose for the AI and its expected benefits, the potential risks of using the AI, and the quality and appropriateness of the relevant data**: Planned or in-progress.
+ **Whether the AI use case has been tested for performance in a real-world environment to understand its potential impact on individual(s) or communities, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(B) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Impact evaluation in operational environment: The AI use case has been tested in an operational environment before being fully implemented as a solution and has utilized randomized experiments with a control group or other counterfactual, social systems analysis, or other rigorous research methodologies to evaluate impact and identify potential harm to users as well as broader groups of people.
+ **Identification of the reasonably foreseeable risks from using the AI use case, to include the risk of inequitable outcomes for individuals. This can be informed by publicly known risks identified in similar use cases or contexts. Examples of such risks include at least physical injury, emotional/psychological injury, opportunity loss, economic loss, privacy loss, environmental impact, or civil rights and civil liberties impact**: Risks identified in this AI were incorrect or halucination responses from the AI. Users are trained and informed to validate the AI responses before use. They were identified through discimination of information of risk from other ChatGPT applications along with developer and user testing.
+ **Whether an independent evaluation of the AI use case has been conducted through the CAIO, an agency AI oversight board, or other appropriate agency office with existing test and evaluation responsibilities, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(C) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. The independent reviewing authority must not have been directly involved in the AI system’s development**: Yes – by another appropriate agency office that was not directly involved in the system’s development
+ **Whether there’s an established process for monitoring performance of the AI system’s functionality and changes to its impact on rights and/or safety, including, if relevant, the risk of AI-enabled discrimination, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(D) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Intermittent and Manually Updated: A plan for monitoring the AI use case is in place, and requires data science teams to work with DevOps engineers to manually update models at scheduled intervals, and create metrics to detect data distribution shifts between the operational environment and the training data for the model.
+ **Whether the agency has determined that the AI can carry out its individual core decisions or actions that could result in a significant impact on rights and safety without direct human involvement. The answer should not be “yes” if humans are not reviewing individual decisions and are only overseeing or reviewing the performance of the system in general**: No - Some individual decisions or actions require direct human oversight.
+ **How the agency is providing reasonable and timely notice regarding the use of AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(I) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Other, if other please explain in next question.
+ **Whether the AI use case significantly influences the outcome of an adverse decision or action, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(D) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Examples include the denial of benefits or deeming a transaction fraudulent**: HMIS is collaborating with, and recieiving approval from, our local DOE on our internal communication plans. HMIS has provided their use cases to all users via an AI website where users can view and request use cases. When a use case gets developed, those effected are communication with about the AI, and provided informational material, training, and feedback loops to provide reasonable and timely notices. Reasonable and Timely notices include Email, Team Channel,  and Online.
+ **How the agency has assessed whether there are significant disparities in the AI’s performance across demographic groups, including in the AI’s real-world deployment, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(A) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: No
+ **How the agency has consulted affected groups, including underserved communities, in the design, development, and use of the AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(B) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: The AI does not take into account any demographic information when generating responses, and does not use any demographic information about employees specifically to generate results. Our AI use case should have have any demographic disparity. If a users were to find an issue with a response, they can provide feedback via a feedback mechanism with each response and provide a summary of their feedback. Developers would then address the issue and look to mitigate any issues found.
+ **How the agency has consulted affected groups, including underserved communities, in the design, development, and use of the AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(B) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Other
+ **How the agency has consulted affected groups, including underserved communities, in the design, development, and use of the AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(B) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: The development of our AI was done with the consultation of our affected community, where affected community is the community of users who would be using the AI, as well as the community of DOE sites that have employed similar AI tools. We have consulted individually and in groups our community and provided early demonstration, feedback mechanisms, direct user testing, post-transaction feedback collection, and areas (Team Channels) where listening and meetings on topics can occur.
+ **Whether the agency has established a fallback and escalation process, which may include reverting to manual human processes, in the event that an impacted individual would like to appeal or contest an AI system’s outcome, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(E) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: No – it is not operationally practical to offer this.
+ **Why the agency does not have an established fallback and escalation process**: There currently is no escalation process fro the AI use case to evaluate the impact on the individual or group. Use of the AI is a productivty use and is voluntary to the users. Users who do not want to use the AI are not required and any issues personally that arise with an individual or group related to the AI can be captured via our feedback, help, and AI Team communication channels and will be reviewed by IMS Leadership.
+ **Whether the agency has established an opt-out mechanism, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(F) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Yes