# RAG knowledge base of agent procedures
## DOI-2024-0006
_[Department of the Interior](<../3_agency/Department of the Interior.md>)_ (DOI) / OCIO


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Searching for information using AI.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Custom AI Solutions for Internal and Customer Support
Description:    We are addressing the challenge of providing quick, accurate, and consistent responses to both internal customer service agents and external customers. Currently, agents must manually search through extensive documentation, which can lead to delays in service response times, inconsistencies in information shared, and a potential for human error. Additionally, external customers often need direct access to information on our website but must wait for human support, which impacts customer satisfaction.
 
By implementing a customized AI chatbot, we aim to streamline access to knowledge for agents, reducing their workload and improving efficiency. Additionally, a customer-facing chatbot would offer external customers instant answers to common questions, further enhancing customer experience and reducing the volume of support inquiries handled by human agents.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Streamline access to knowledge for agents, reducing their workload and improving efficiency. Additionally, a customer-facing chatbot would offer external customers instant answers to common questions, further enhancing customer experience and reducing the volume of support inquiries handled by human agents.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Implementation and Assessment
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency requested an extension for this AI use case, in response to the CAIO’s request, of up to one year for the minimum requirements outlined in Section 5 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: No – Agency did not request an extension for this use case.