# Intelligent Optical Character Recognition
## DOI-2024-0032
_[Department of the Interior](../3_agency/Department of the Interior.md)_ (DOI) / IBC


+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Inputting large amounts of data from paper forms into a digital system using AI.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: IOCR is machine learning software that replaces the need for collecting documents and manually entering them into systems.  The software learns over time based on volume fed through the software and corrects common errors automatically, such as 0 vs O.  Invoice processing is one of the immediate applications considered for IOCR.  IOCR will speed the flow of data to the certifying officer for review and ultimate payment.  This capability also has broader potential to enhance data extraction, validation, and preservation.  IOCR will be deployed in conjunction with Robotics Process Automation to allow for more comprehensive automation solutions. The same robust testing and validation of automations prior to deployment to production will be applied to IOCR.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: IOCR will speed the flow of data to the certifying officer for review and ultimate payment.  This capability also has broader potential to enhance data extraction, validation, and preservation.  IOCR will be deployed in conjunction with Robotics Process Automation to allow for more comprehensive automation solutions. The same robust testing and validation of automations prior to deployment to production will be applied to IOCR
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Implementation and Assessment
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency requested an extension for this AI use case, in response to the CAIO’s request, of up to one year for the minimum requirements outlined in Section 5 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: No – Agency did not request an extension for this use case.