# CESU project to detect of bird nests using deep learning to support annual colonial bird monitoring
## DOI-2024-0010
_[Department of the Interior](<../3_agency/Department of the Interior.md>)_ (DOI) / NPS


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: This work is already being accomplished via a cooperative agreement with a university (Florida International University)

The National Park Service (NPS), has been monitoring colonial nesting birds monthly via low level aerial photography from a helicopter platform in Biscayne National Park since 2010. These photographs are processed to determine the number of active nests for specific focal species: Double-crested Cormorants, Great Egrets, Great White Herons, Great Blue Herons, White Ibises, and Roseate Spoonbills. NPS now has 13 years of data which is composed of 64,350 uniquely identified nests and 57,793 birds representing.

This monitoring is time consuming and needs to be accomplished consistently and accurately. Currently, the aerial photos are processed by individuals. Which takes substantial time and effort. We propose to explore the creation of automatic script that would allow the active nest to be identified using software. The goal of this project is to explore software programs and create automatic script that can identify potential bird nests on the photograph and to highlight this area on the photograph. By developing a robust object detection model, researchers can monitor bird colonies and their populations more efficiently, e.g. by consistently identifying nests with software which will allow the tracking of nesting patterns with less person effort needed to accomplish this task. It will also help to control observer detection variation over time.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Outputs were not documented and DOI will update the use cases once additional data is collected from submitter
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Implementation and Assessment
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Data not reported by submitter and will be updated once additional information is collected
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: Data not reported by submitter and will be updated once additional information is collected
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: Data not reported by submitter and will be updated once additional information is collected
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Data not reported by submitter and will be updated once additional information is collected
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: Yes – agency has access to source code, but it is not public.
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency requested an extension for this AI use case, in response to the CAIO’s request, of up to one year for the minimum requirements outlined in Section 5 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: No – Agency did not request an extension for this use case.