# Predictive AI Applications for Wildlife Monitoring: SeeOtter, a custom built software solution for a
## DOI-2024-0030
_Department of the Interior_ (DOI) / FWS


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Science & Space
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Marine Mammals Management is tasked with Stock Assessments under the Marine Mammal Protection Act, Section 117 and sea otter population monitoring has shifted to image-based surveys, relying on on a YoloV5, AI-assisted process to procure a data set of sea otter observations from photos. Department of Interior agencies, USFWS, USGS, and NPS have all adopted an image-based methodology for sea otter population monitoring, but the model requires continued maintenance and refinement with new surveys, sensor upgrades, and model updates. Unfortunately, there are no AI expert permanent staff tased with this project across Alaska DOI programs and the need has been fulfilled through contractors. SeeOtter was a custom developed software by Collin Power and Evan Wetherington, under contract to USFWS Sea Otter Program, to turn hundreds of thousands of images from across the Gulf of Alaska into datasets usable for statistical analyses by USGS and Stock Assessment Reporting by USFWS and NPS. Glacier Bay NPS assisted in developing an SOP for the AI-assisted processing for sea otter data and Collin Power, under contract with USGS built the system out through a Center for Data Integration Project to make it more accessible to interested users. We would like SeeOtter to be a tool availabel to Partners, across DOI as well as Tribes and researchers, who are interested in applying a predictive AI model for counting objects from imagery.

USGS also have plans for large scale photo surveys coming up in 2025/26 and we will be working collaboratively to figure out the support for image processing following the SeeOtter SOP that has been developed in a partnership among USFWS, USGS, and NPS.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The Yolo V5 algorithm provides georeferenced bounding boxes around each object detected in an image, in our case, sea otters with an associated confidence score.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 1/3/2022
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: Data not reported by submitter and will be updated once additional information is collected
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: Images captured during aerial sea otter surveys across Alaska.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation has been partially completed: Some documentation exists (detailing the composition and any statistical bias or measurement skew for training and evaluation purposes), but documentation took place within this use case’s development.
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: Yes – agency has access to source code, but it is not public.
+ **Link to publicly available source code for the AI use case, if available, in alignment with OMB Memorandum M-24-10’s section on sharing**: public release in development.
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency requested an extension for this AI use case, in response to the CAIO’s request, of up to one year for the minimum requirements outlined in Section 5 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: No – Agency did not request an extension for this use case.