# Cost Estimation Using EDL Database Data
## DOI-2024-0004
_Department of the Interior_ (DOI) / OS - Office of the Secretary of the Interior


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: This use case aims to leverage AI/ML for estimating environmental remediation costs based on historical data within the EDL (Environmental Data Liability) database. The model would analyze archived and current records to provide estimates that aid budget planning and contractor evaluations.

Problem Being Solved: To enhance budget estimation accuracy for environmental remediation activities by comparing new sites with archived data of similar sites to estimate total cleanup costs.

Goal: The goal is to improve cost estimation accuracy, enhance contractor proposal evaluation, and aid in long-term financial planning.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Intended Use: The AI/ML tool would provide estimates to support the decision-making process for budget planning and contractor proposal assessments. This would act as a supplementary tool and not the primary decision source.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: Data Involved: Source: EDL Database; Types: Site type, phase of remediation, complexity, size, contaminants of concern, and cost information. Data characteristics: Structured data fields including categorical (e.g., site type, phase, and contaminants of concern) and numerical (e.g., costs, size estimates). Updates: periodic updates to reflect changes in cost due to inflation or other factors. Annual update for inflation.
+ **Whether the agency requested an extension for this AI use case, in response to the CAIO’s request, of up to one year for the minimum requirements outlined in Section 5 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: No – Agency did not request an extension for this use case.