# Visual Studio
## DOL-2024-0050
_[Department of Labor](<../3_agency/Department of Labor.md>)_ (DOL) / OCIO


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Collaborating in real-time using AI-assisted tools in word processors.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Visual Studio IDE is a creative launching pad that you can use to edit, debug, and build code, and then publish an app.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Content creation. Can vary depending on the specific tasks and goals of the user. Common outputs include executable applications, libraries, or web applications. --- There are multiple version of it. Visual Studio incorporates several AI components to enhance the development experience for programmers and software engineers. These AI features are primarily aimed at improving productivity, code quality, and collaboration.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither