# Google Earth Pro
## DOL-2024-0052
_Department of Labor_ (DOL) / OCIO


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Planning travel routes using AI-driven map applications.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Google Earth Pro is a free desktop tool with advanced GIS and mapping features. With this tool, users can create maps, import and export GIS data, and access historical images.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: A 3D representation of the Earth's surface, with satellite imagery and aerial photography providing a detailed view of different locations worldwide. --- Create and collaborate on immersive, data-driven maps from anywhere, with the new Google Earth. See the world from above with high-resolution satellite imagery, explore 3D terrain and buildings in hundreds of cities, and dive in to streets and neighborhoods with Street View's 360° perspectives. Image Generation Content creation Graphic Design Automation
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither