# Instagram Mobile App
## DOL-2024-0044
_[Department of Labor](../3_agency/Department of Labor.md)_ (DOL) / OCIO


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Curating news articles and updates based on user preferences using AI.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Keep up with friends on the fly with Stories and Notes that disappear after 24 hours.
Start group chats and share unfiltered moments with your Close Friends.
Share memories from recent events or trips in Feed.
Turn your life into a movie and discover short, entertaining videos on Instagram with Reels.
Customize your posts with exclusive templates, music, stickers and filters.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: NLP, Communications
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither