# Adobe Creative Cloud and Adobe Product Suite
## DOL-2024-0053
_Department of Labor_ (DOL) / OCIO


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Creating visually appealing presentations using AI-driven design suggestions.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: After Effects - Create cinematic movie titles, intros, and transitions. Remove an object from a clip. Start a fire or make it rain. Animate a logo or character. With After Effects, the industry-standard motion graphics and visual effects software, you can take any idea and make it move.

- > Audition is a comprehensive toolset that includes multitrack, waveform, and spectral display for creating, mixing, editing, and restoring audio content. This powerful audio workstation is designed to accelerate video production workflows and audio finishing — and deliver a polished mix with pristine sound.

- > Bridge is a powerful creative asset manager that lets you preview, organize, edit, and publish multiple creative assets quickly and easily.

- > Captivate is an authoring tool that is used for creating eLearning content such as software demonstrations, software simulations, branched scenarios, and randomized quizzes in HTML5 format.

- > Character Animator uses your expressions and movements to animate characters in real time.

- > Dimension - Create engaging content in 3D faster, with high-quality models, materials, and lighting. Dimension makes it easy to build brand visualizations, illustrations, product mockups, packaging designs, and other creative work.

- >Dreamweaver - Adobe Dreamweaver is a proprietary web development tool from Adobe Inc.

- >  Fuse CC Beta is part of Creative Cloud and comes with Adobe CreativeSync, so your assets are always at your fingertips right when you need them. Save the characters you create in Fuse to your Creative Cloud Libraries and then access them directly within Photoshop to take them further.

- > Illustrator - Edit, composite, and create beautiful images, graphics, and art on desktop and iPad.

- > InCopy - lets copywriters and editors style text, track changes, and make simple layout modifications to a document.

- > InDesign - Design and publish elegant layouts for print and digital.

- > LightRoom - The cloud-based photo service

- > PhotoShop - Edit, composite, and create beautiful images, graphics, and art on desktop and iPad.

- > Premiere Pro is a video editing software for film, TV, the web, creative tools, and integration with other apps and services.

- > XD is a vector-based user experience design tool for web apps and mobile apps.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Various types of creative content such as graphics, videos, websites, and more. --- Adobe Creative Cloud leverages AI through Adobe Sensei to enhance various applications, making creative processes more efficient, accurate, and innovative.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither