# Microsoft Copilot Integration
## EAC-2024-0001
_[Election Assistance Commission](../3_agency/Election Assistance Commission.md)_ (EAC) / OCIO


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Summarizing the key points of a lengthy report using AI.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Efficiency and improved administrative tasks.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Text-based summaries and AI generated text.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Whether the agency requested an extension for this AI use case, in response to the CAIO’s request, of up to one year for the minimum requirements outlined in Section 5 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: No – Agency did not request an extension for this use case.
+ **Whether an AI impact assessment for the AI use case has been completed, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(A) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. This assessment should document at least the intended purpose for the AI and its expected benefits, the potential risks of using the AI, and the quality and appropriateness of the relevant data**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case has been tested for performance in a real-world environment to understand its potential impact on individual(s) or communities, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(B) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Performance evaluation in operational environment: The AI use case has been tested in an operational environment before being fully implemented as a solution, or has been tested in simulated or controlled environment using operational or synthetic data.
+ **Identification of the reasonably foreseeable risks from using the AI use case, to include the risk of inequitable outcomes for individuals. This can be informed by publicly known risks identified in similar use cases or contexts. Examples of such risks include at least physical injury, emotional/psychological injury, opportunity loss, economic loss, privacy loss, environmental impact, or civil rights and civil liberties impact**: AI is not safety or rights-impacting.
+ **Whether an independent evaluation of the AI use case has been conducted through the CAIO, an agency AI oversight board, or other appropriate agency office with existing test and evaluation responsibilities, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(C) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. The independent reviewing authority must not have been directly involved in the AI system’s development**: AI is not safety or rights-impacting.
+ **Whether there’s an established process for monitoring performance of the AI system’s functionality and changes to its impact on rights and/or safety, including, if relevant, the risk of AI-enabled discrimination, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(D) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: AI is not safety or rights-impacting.
+ **Whether the agency has determined that the AI can carry out its individual core decisions or actions that could result in a significant impact on rights and safety without direct human involvement. The answer should not be “yes” if humans are not reviewing individual decisions and are only overseeing or reviewing the performance of the system in general**: AI is not safety or rights-impacting.
+ **How the agency is providing reasonable and timely notice regarding the use of AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(I) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: AI is not safety or rights-impacting.
+ **How the agency has assessed whether there are significant disparities in the AI’s performance across demographic groups, including in the AI’s real-world deployment, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(A) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: No
+ **How the agency has consulted affected groups, including underserved communities, in the design, development, and use of the AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(B) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: AI is not safety or rights-impacting.
+ **How the agency has consulted affected groups, including underserved communities, in the design, development, and use of the AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(B) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: None of the above
+ **Whether the agency has established a fallback and escalation process, which may include reverting to manual human processes, in the event that an impacted individual would like to appeal or contest an AI system’s outcome, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(E) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: No – it is not operationally practical to offer this.
+ **Why the agency does not have an established fallback and escalation process**: AI is not safety or rights-impacting.
+ **Whether the agency has established an opt-out mechanism, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(F) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Other
+ **Whether the agency has established an opt-out mechanism, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(F) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: AI is not safety or rights-impacting, is not required for the completion of any tasks, and is optional for individual employees to use.