# Clearinghouse Network
## EAC-2024-0002
_Election Assistance Commission_ (EAC) / Clearinghouse


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Summarizing the key points of a lengthy report using AI.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The Clearinghouse Network is a series of online communities hosted on the Roundtable platform. These communities, including any AI features, are not open to the general public. Members of these communities are state or local election officials. The AI tools in this platform are intended to meet the needs of election officials by providing summaries for longer text or video based content.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Summarized text and video transcripts.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither