# Machine learning-assisted literature screening
## EPA-2024-0010
_[Environmental Protection Agency](<../3_agency/Environmental Protection Agency.md>)_ (EPA) / Office of Reseach and Development


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Science & Space
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Searching for information using AI.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The purpose is to help scientists in screening references by using machine learning to rank references by title and abstract based on relevance as determined from a set of "on topic" and "off topic" references. The benefits are that scientists will more efficiently identify relevant references for consideration in the development of scientific assessments.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The machine learning tools support scientists in screening references by providing those references in a ranked order. That ranked order may or may not be based on seed references that are "on topic" and/or "off topic. The screening tools build a model based on what the screener identifies for "inclusion" and "exclusion". This ranked set of references allows scientists to more quickly identify relevant references. Some of these tools also provide an estimate or recall, or the percentage of relevant references identified.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither