# Natural Gas STAR Videos
## EPA-2024-0006
_[Environmental Protection Agency](<../3_agency/Environmental Protection Agency.md>)_ (EPA) / Office of Air and Radiation


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Energy & the Environment
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: This is a commercial product that is not reflected in the list in the previous column. The purpose of using this AI tool was to simply create realistic audio narration files, without having to go through the lengthy and more expensive process of hiring a voice actor to read our scripts. The tool turns text into speech.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The AI tool did not make any of the decisions or predictions.  It only sounded out text that we created and supplied the tool.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 11/17/2023