# Use of AI tools within the Agency’s instance of ServiceNow
## EPA-2024-0009
_[Environmental Protection Agency](<../3_agency/Environmental Protection Agency.md>)_ (EPA) / Office of Mission Support


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: ServiceNow is used as the Agency’s primary service desk management system for resolving incidents, problems, change controls, knowledge management, inventory of systems and software including the central Configuration Management Datbase (CMDB).  Employees and IT professionals rely on this platform to obtain service, submit incidents, obtain reports and trends, and plan workloads and priorities to solve problems.  Our proposed use of AI tools is limited in scope the Agency’s existing security boundary, data and ATO.  The expected benefits are reduced numbers of service tickets and calls which will have a direct cost reduction.  Help desk and IT professionals throughout the agency will be able to leverage the vast trove of knowledge articles, asset inventory and history of hundreds of thousands of service tickets to find answers to challenging (and common) IT issues facing our workforce.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Several use cases have emerged to leverage ServiceNow's upcoming AI tools for employees to engage with an AI agent to ask technical questions to solve specific technical issues.  

For example:
b.	An employee may ask, how do I reset my password; the answer will provide a written response with steps based on our existing internal knowledge articles and a link to the Agency’s self-service password management page at pss.epa.gov.  This could divert thousands of calls away from service desk agents each year.
c.	A service desk agent may ask, how do I troubleshoot a problem a customer reports with the error message at Windows login, “domain not found.”  The response would be a list of steps both the technician and employee will need to preform to resolve the error.  This will save the technician a significant amount of time to search the ServiceNow knowledge articles, read the contents and relay instructions to the customer.
d.	A manager may ask the AI agent, how many computers in Region 10 require updates to the latest version of Windows 11 23H2?  How many installations of Adobe Acrobat (pro) are installed in HQ?  How many Dell Latitude 5340 computer have expired warranties agency-wide, provide a detailed list including service tags?
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 7/1/2024