# Use of Microsoft CoPilot within the M365 Purview Security Suite
## EPA-2024-0008
_[Environmental Protection Agency](<../3_agency/Environmental Protection Agency.md>)_ (EPA) / Office of Mission Support


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Purview is one of the Agency’s tools to protect our Microsoft cloud data and endpoint devices.  Several potential use cases are possible with the addition of CoPilot into the product which is anticipated in upcoming releases within our GCC tenant.  Our proposed use of AI tools is limited in scope the Agency’s existing security boundary, data and Authority to Operate (ATO).

The expected benefits are faster answers to common questions about the nature of EPA's security and IT infrastructure environment.  We will be able to more effectively leverage the voluminous amount of data currently collected by Purview, Microsoft Security Center, and Defender agents to make decision in a more expedited fashion.  We will be able to act on results more quickly to help reduce security vulnerabilities and weaknesses.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: a.	Security and infrastructure analysts will be able to use CoPilot to better understand and report on existing security vulnerabilities on Microsoft Windows devices. Purview currently delivers canned reports in our dashboard which shows existing vulnerabilities.  CoPilot can be queried to ask specific questions about the vulnerabilities, such as which computers are impacted and the potential mitigation strategy for specific vulnerabilities.
b.	CoPilot can be used to analyze and report on installed software, reporting on potential vulnerabilities and versions for each package.
c.	CoPilot can describe and summarize Data Loss Prevention (DLP) alerts that require Agency attention and help analysts to understand which types of sensitive data are triggering alerts and to improve our models.
d.	CoPilot can quickly respond to common questions about the environment without writing custom reports:  how many Windows 22H2 computers are in the environment?  How many systems are missing the latest Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM) client?  How many computers are still unpatched for the Log4J vulnerability?  What is the last login for the workstation name: R07Smith123?
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 11/1/2024