# Knowledge Article Generation
## FDIC-2024-0004
_Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation_ (FDIC) / Chief Information Officer Organization


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Improving the quality of written communications using AI tools.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The problem is that staff spends time writing article to resolve server outages.
Following the remediation of a server outage incident, the Gen AI would write a draft Knowledge Article on how to resolve future incidents of that type. Other benefits:

~Providing a better service experience: The Infrastructure Operations Systems Branch (IOSB) team can leverage self-service; they can easily find answers; the IOSB service experience will improve, allowing IOSB team to self serve 24/7 from the Knowledge Articles base
~Reduce caseload on IOSB; IOSB can solve their problems more efficiently, fewer cases require IOSB support. IOSB freed up to solving more complex customer issues
~Cut down average handle time: As we solve server outage cases and structure into articles, more IOSB team members can use that information to solve their cases faster and reduce average handle time.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The output would be a draft Knowledge Article.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither