# Outlook Unstructured Text Extraction
## FDIC-2024-0024
_Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation_ (FDIC) / Division of Administration


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The Corporate Services Branch (CSB) would like to use a custom AI prompt to test extraction from unstructured text emails that are currently going to a group box. This effort will be used to condition the data so that it can be used for reporting efforts and other needs. This is meant to be a pilot test to determine if this course of action is feasible and as a training opportunity for the Corporate Services Branch (CSB) Citizen Developer. Custom AI prompts are used for this use case.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The Corporate Services Branch (CSB) Pilot will automatically extract unstructured text from group email boxes when new email arrives to write the data into a usable data table for further use in management reporting and Key Performance Measures tracking. The model will also be used to look at historical data sitting in group mail boxes.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 6/1/2024