# Transcribing Structured Interviews
## FDIC-2024-0052
_[Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation](<../3_agency/Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.md>)_ (FDIC) / Division of Risk Management Supervision


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Other
+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Financial Regulation
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Transcribing and summarizing a recorded meeting or interview using AI.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Risk Management Supervision (RMS) Atlanta wants to pilot the use of transcription  to record structured interviews. This would allow RMS interview panels to engage with the applicant without needing to focus on taking detailed notes but would allow them to refer back to structured answers as needed. 
Today, panel members must transcribe every word themselves, and must split their attention between the candidate and the transcription. The use of AI is meant to supplement (not replace) human note taking during the interview.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The output will be the  transcription of the audio of the interview.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither