# eDiscovery Organize & Search
## FDIC-2024-0055
_Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation_ (FDIC) / Legal Division


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Searching for information using AI.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Electronically stored information and records have become so voluminous, it is impossible to review and search without automated assistance. 
The Legal Division's eDiscovery vendors use a commercial off the shelf (COTS) software to perform eDiscovery related tasks. 
The software deploys machine learning capabilities to receive, organize, search, and identify electronically stored information in large data sets.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The AI software identifies to the software user electronically stored information (such as documents, emails, text messages, etc. that have been uploaded into the software) likely to be relevant/responsive to user-entered searches. Human users remain responsible for verifying the AI's predictions of what documents are relevant/responsive to searches.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither