# Trust Document Entity Extraction - LLM
## FDIC-2024-0049
_Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation_ (FDIC) / Division of Resolutions and Receiverships


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Other
+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Financial Regulation
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: DRR’s objective is to minimize the current processing time for monetary claims related to Trust Accounts following any bank closure. The current process involves claim specialists manually reviewing trust agreements to match and verify customer form inputs. The review process is labor intensive and may require further reviews by legal experts, hence, prolonging the processing time. This use case is to automate this process using a Gen AI powered function that can extract text from Trust Documents to match/validate customer inputs.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The extracted data, along with the original Trust Agreement, will be presented to users through an application user interface.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 6/7/2024