# Document Indexing
## FDIC-2024-0054
_[Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation](../3_agency/Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.md)_ (FDIC) / Division of Risk Management Supervision


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Other
+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Indexing FDIC Documents
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Digitizing text from scanned documents or smart forms for archival purposes using AI.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The Regional Automated Document  Distribution and Imaging System (RADD) is an electronic document management system that manages all supervisory related correspondence between the FDIC, financial Institutions, and other regulators.  When documents are received from banks, other regulators, and FDIC staff they are manually indexed using a table-driven schema.  The schema includes business line, date, source, document name, and folder.  All indexing, except date, is table driven and every document must be fully indexed.  Currently, RMS has roughly 24 individuals that index RADD documents.  RADD has close to two million documents that are accuracy indexed.  These documents have unique characteristics, such cover sheets, key words, etc.  The hope is we can use AI/ML to replace, or at least supplement, the manual indexing process thus reducing labor costs and improving accuracy.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The system would output the recommended indexing data for documents received from banks and other agencies
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither