# Phishing Email Identification
## FHFA-2024-0003
_Federal Housing Finance Agency_ (FHFA) / OCOO


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Prioritizing and categorizing incoming emails using AI.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Knowbe4 PhishER is a tool to report and manage suspicious emails. This tool use ML and AI to analyze suspicious emails to identify if the email is spam, phishing, or malicious. The primary benefit of this tool is to automate responses without requiring human intervention to analyze each email that end users identify as suspicious.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Output is a response to suspicious emails without requiring a cybersecurity specialist to analyze hundreds of emails. This tool reduces time to respond to end user requests concerning suspicious activity.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Implementation and Assessment
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither