# Improving Customer Response
## HHS-2024-0218
_[Department of Health and Human Services](<../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md>)_ (HHS) / NIH


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: NLM is pilot testing the utilization of artificial intelligence (AI) to assist Customer Service Representatives (CSRs) in drafting responses to customer inquiries. It is currently being developed behind NIH's firewall for a select internal user base. The AI is focused on generating draft responses for customer service but will not make final decisions or engage in direct communication with customers. CSRs are instructed to not enter personally identified info into the AI system. In the event this info is entered, the AI system is automatically prompted to not include any personally identified information in its generated response. Additional safeguards would make sense in a production environment or if it was released to the public. The AI will integrate with customer service platforms and databases like Medline Plus and DailyMed. The AI will use text data from customer inquiries and publicly accessible NLM-managed biomedical information services and be deployed within the customer service department. 

The project aims to enhance customer response metrics, increase customer satisfaction, and improve the efficiency of handling customer service inquiries.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Inputs: Customer inquiries, publicly accessible, NLM-managed biomedical information services (such as Medline Plus, DailyMed, etc.).

Outputs: Draft responses, resource links, disclaimers.

Frequency: Responses generated in real-time as inquiries are received.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 11/1/2023
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 5/1/2023
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: 75N97023A00004/75N97023F00006
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: Website data (HTML, CSS, JavaScript), accessibility standards. Measures taken to ensure data accuracy and reliability: grounding, testing, evaluation, NIST framework.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is complete
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: No
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: Re-use production level code from a different use-case: This use case re-uses production level code and/or internally developed code libraries for model development from existing AI systems or repositories inside the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Limited documentation for review: Some information regarding the model’s performance on specific benchmarks are available or have been shared with specific stakeholders within the agency.