# Smart Search
## HHS-2024-0271
_Department of Health and Human Services_ (HHS) / SAMHSA


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: SAMHSA.gov team would like to procure "Kendra" to implement a smart search on store.samhsa.gov—improving access to the Federal Government’s leading source of behavioral health information. Currently the search on store.samhsa.gov relies on key words pulled from document titles, descriptions, and manually generated tags. Both anecdotal evidence and results of usability testing have demonstrated that the Store’s search capability is the single greatest barrier to users accessing materials they need

Kendra will allow for scanning of all documents in the store to respond more accurately to consumer queries while providing a faster search.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Kendra is not generative AI and does not provide AI-generated responses to queries. Kendra operates within strict guardrails to ensure the security and privacy of information, particularly concerning the handling of sensitive data like Personally Identifiable Information (PII).
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 9/1/2024