# Assessment of DTT/NTP research effectiveness
## HHS-2024-0188
_[Department of Health and Human Services](../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md)_ (HHS) / NIH


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Health & Medical
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Dextr/LaserAI does not use PII, PHI or demographic data. Dextr is FEDRAMP certified and ATO in the cloud. Data sources for Dextr are published PDFs accessible through open source publications (e.g. PubMed Central) or through our subscriptions (e.g., NLM).

Modification and customization of the DEXTR automated extraction tool has been implemented to identify and capture Division of Translational Toxicology (DTT) and National Toxicology Program (NTP) research citations in the published literature, regulations, and popular press. The DEXTR automated workflow with user-verification supports the identification of these citations that will be used to assess impact and effectiveness of DTT and NTP research. Division Directors and Branch Chiefs require an evidence-based approach to assess the effectiveness of current and past research. Such an approach would be highly valuable for research prioritization.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Identifies how DTT/NTP research was used or impacted the publication.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/1/2024
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 10/1/2024
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: No
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: Data sources for Dextr are published PDFs accessible through open source publications (e.g. PubMed Central) or through our subscriptions (e.g., NLM).
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is missing or not available
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: DEXTR
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: No
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: Use of existing data platforms: This use case is being developed on existing enterprise data and analytics platforms within the agency rather than procuring additional platforms or SaaS to operate.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: No documentation is available: No documentation detailing model performance metrics, model architecture, features and intended use of the models have been created or are currently accessible to other data science teams within the agency.