# Tech Support Chatbot
## HHS-2024-0258
_[Department of Health and Human Services](<../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md>)_ (HHS) / NIH


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: It is designed to address two usage scenarios: (1) provide the ORS/ORF community with an interactive customer service chat interface for inquiries related to OIIT technology services, policy, and general information and (2) provide OIIT staff with the ability to receive answers in a variety of technical areas as they troubleshoot or manage efforts in their respective teams.

The benefit of the AI is to improve administrative questions and efficiency of the information to the internal OIIT team.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Provides text, images and data. Input data source is local database. Frequency is TBD.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 6/1/2024