# Scholar Match
## HHS-2024-0178
_Department of Health and Human Services_ (HHS) / HRSA


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The current candidate evaluations and placement process is complex and challenging for both analysts and participants. By enhancing this process with AI/ML support could optimize resource allocation and candidate satisfaction, significantly impacting workforce distribution and efficiency in critical health areas.

This would improve the process of matching NHSC and Nurse Corps Scholars going into clinical service in underserved communities.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The Scholar Match (SM) leverages AI to enhance the placement process of NHSC and Nurse Corps scholars in communities of need across the U.S. and territories. By analyzing candidate profiles and regional needs, SM recommends optimal placements, ensuring both the fulfillment of organizational needs and the satisfaction of the candidates. Current planning leverages Machine Learning, Recommendation Systems, Cloud-based platforms and Data analytics services for the implementation.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 1/1/2025