# LLM Support for Admin Services
## HHS-2024-0225
_Department of Health and Human Services_ (HHS) / NIH


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: This project aims to explore the integration of large language models (LLMs) into administrative operations, aiming to enhance efficiency, accuracy, and productivity. By leveraging LLMs, repetitive tasks can be automated including data analysis, documentation drafting, and customer support, thereby freeing up valuable time for administrative personnel to focus on more strategic initiatives. Additionally, LLMs can facilitate natural language processing (NLP) for documentation, ensuring consistency and accuracy in communication across various channels. Through process automation, policy monitoring, and virtual assistance, LLMs offer the potential to streamline our administrative workflow, reduce manual workload, and mitigate the risk of errors. This assessment will provide valuable insights into the feasibility and effectiveness of integrating LLMs into our administrative framework, ultimately optimizing our operations and enhancing organizational performance.

It will reduce the burden of administrative tasks, faster response to administrative inquiries, fewer resources required to support administrative operations.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Uses NLM administrative and operational data to output procedures, forms, schedules, etc.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 5/1/2024