# Automated approaches for table extraction
## HHS-2024-0192
_[Department of Health and Human Services](<../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md>)_ (HHS) / NIH


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Health & Medical
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The Division of Translational Toxicology (DTT) is an intramural division at NIEHS. DTT's mission is to improve public health through data and knowledge development that are translatable, predictive, and timely. DTT scientists use a variety of traditional and cutting-edge approaches to better understand how factors in our environment may impact health.

Automated approaches for identifying and extracting data from tables will save time and reduce level of effort for teams evaluating published studies (epidemiology reviews or meta-analyses, hazard assessments, etc.) and ultimately impacts development of health effect conclusions.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This project developed an automated, model-based processes to reduce the time and level of effort for manual  extraction of data from tables. Published data tables are a particularly data-rich and challenging presentation of critical information in published research.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: 1/1/2024