# Unaccompanied Children Process Model Digital Twins
## HHS-2024-0007
_[Department of Health and Human Services](../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md)_ (HHS) / ACF


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) Unaccompanied Children Bureau provides a safe and appropriate environment to children who enter the United States without immigration status and without a parent or legal guardian who is able to provide for their physical and mental well-being (referred to as “unaccompanied children”). ORR funds residential care provider facilities that provide temporary housing and other services to unaccompanied children in ORR custody. ORR and its care providers work to ensure that children are released timely and safely from ORR custody to parents, other family members, or other adults (often referred to as “sponsors”) who can care for the child’s physical and mental well-being. Unaccompanied children remain in ORR’s care and custody until they are released to a parent or other sponsor in the United States, are repatriated to their home country, obtain legal status, or turn 18 years old, at which time they are transferred to the custody of DHS. There are many processes involved throughout.

The goal is for ORR to be more proactive in strategic planning and contingency planning.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: ORR is exploring use of process digital twins to provide the ability to run "what if" scenarios
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/1/2024