# Document summarization
## HHS-2024-0270
_Department of Health and Human Services_ (HHS) / SAMHSA


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: SAMHSA employees routinely read and summarize large amounts of documentation for grantmaking, management, and other day-to-day work. Ingesting and condensing such vast amounts of information can take time away from SAMHSA's most important mission-driven work.

The document summarization tool will expedite day-to-day workflows and help employees ingest large amounts of information more quickly.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The document summarization tool will allow users to upload documents and produce a summary of these documents. The tool will have enhanced data privacy mechanisms. Additionally, the tool will not use any SAMHSA-provided input as training data, ensuring that private information stays private to SAMHSA.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 8/1/2024