# Assessing developing possible version of "HHSGPT" for OIDP-specific internal use
## HHS-2024-0263
_[Department of Health and Human Services](<../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md>)_ (HHS) / OASH


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: OIDP's HIV.gov: an exploration of possibly using a custom knowledge-based walled/isolated version of "Chat GPT" for our internal OIDP users to access information to help with internal operational efficiencies related to our work on national strategies.  We have been meeting for almost 1 year with senior HHS officials working on AI to keep them up to date on our approach and efforts in both RAG LLM and generative AI. We describe our work as an internal library. The tool is called Ask ABE! (v3.0.0-alpha.1) - AI-Driven. Beneficial. Equitable (ABE). It's like having a digital librarian who can help us at OIDP easily access and use all the valuable resources from HIV.gov to support our work in ending new HIV transmissions! Our work is critical to ensuring the following issues are addressed: (1) Security: FedRAMP certified Azure Open AI 3.5 Turbo / 4o Global. (2) Privacy: Not tracking conversations nor usage. PII stripped. (3) Equity: HIV Language and HIV Language Guideline through internal system prompt. (4) Hallucinations: Internal system prompt  - ABE HIV.gov knowledge base and conversation history. There is a low risk of this occurring compared to open systems like ChatGPT. (5) Risk: NIST AI Risk Management Framework: Govern, Map, Measure, Manage for Responsible AI, Observable AI, and Explainable AI (6) Certifications / Training / Support: Azure AI Certifications / Data Science DoJo / Corporate Thought Leadership Support: Responsible AI Framework.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: OIDP internal federal staff would possibly be able to ask questions, develop content, and revise existing content using a unique dataset of OIDP information. Inclusion of NIH HIV guideline is embedded in the internal prompting.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 9/1/2023