# ClinicalTrials.gov Protocol Registration and Results System Review Assistant
## HHS-2024-0200
_[Department of Health and Human Services](../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md)_ (HHS) / NIH


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: ClinicalTrials.gov is a website and online database of clinical research studies and information about their results. The purpose of ClinicalTrials.gov is to provide information about clinical research studies to the public, researchers, and health care professionals.

This project aims to help ClinicalTrials.gov determine whether the addition of AI could make reviewing study records more efficient and effective.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The classifier takes as input free-text related to a study’s endpoint and returns a prediction of whether one or more issues is present.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 2/1/2021
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 11/1/2021
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: GSA Contract # GS-10F-0064W    NLM BPA Task Order: 75N97019A00005/75N97021F00006
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: No
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: We utilized agency-owned data for training and evaluating the model's performance. The data consisted of clinical study record submissions from ClinicalTrials.gov's Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) that were divided into two groups:

Set A: This group included submissions that did not pass quality control review, meaning they were returned to data submitters for revision and, in certain cases, are versions of the record that were never posted on ClinicalTrials.gov (not accessible to the public). These submissions had a relevant issue identified during manual quality control review, providing examples of endpoints known to contain the specific issue.

Set B: This group included submissions that were posted on ClinicalTrials.gov with endpoints that had never been labeled as having the specific issue. These submissions provided examples of endpoints that were considered not to have the specific issue.The input to the classifiers consisted of endpoint attributes, including Measure Titles, Descriptions, Time Frames, Units of Measure, and labels indicating whether the issue was present. This data did not have any personal identifiers. The data was in a structured format in the PRS, but the specific endpoint attributes were provided as free-text.

We processed over 10,000 endpoints from Set A, which included examples with identified issues, and over 40,000 endpoints from Set B, which had not been flagged with issues. It is important to note that the labeling of issues in the dataset is not exhaustive. Some endpoints may present multiple issues combined and labeled as a single issue, and there is a possibility that some issues were missed by reviewers. Consequently, Set B might contain endpoints that actually have the issue despite not being labeled as such.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is complete
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: No
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: Use of existing data platforms: This use case is being developed on existing enterprise data and analytics platforms within the agency rather than procuring additional platforms or SaaS to operate.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Limited documentation for review: Some information regarding the model’s performance on specific benchmarks are available or have been shared with specific stakeholders within the agency.