# NewsScape
## HHS-2024-0044
_Department of Health and Human Services_ (HHS) / CDC


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Development of early warning indicators. News articles can form an early warning indicator of public health events and other pieces of information which can be utilized across all major domains of public health. Because of the quantity of news articles, manual efforts are impossible to gather this information.

There are a variety of endpoints that this AI output could help support. Various teams across the CDC have expressed interest in being able to quickly get the right news content, with summaries of those articles to help support outbreak detection, report generation, surveillance and monitoring of pathogen specific news, etc. AI lets us efficiently filter and summarize thousands of news articles a day into a handful of daily "news events" that user can glean information from.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: NewsScape is a AI enabled news aggregation and summarization that is hosted within the 1CDP platform. The main motivation to build  NewsScape was to develop a system that uses Large Language Models (LLMs) to surface relevant insight from recent news articles. NewsScape ingests a high volume of news articles, in the order of thousands of news articles everyday, and surfaces the information from them that related to the topic we were interested (for example, pathogen related news articles, or U.S. medical supply chain updates).  The tool can be customized based on specific program office needs, and can be deployed independently of one another so that one program office can have their own custom version of NewsScape installed.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 1/1/2023
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 1/1/2023
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with both contracting and in-house resources.
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: No
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: None
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation has been partially completed
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: 1 CDC Data Platform (1CDP)
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: 6-12 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: Use of existing data platforms: This use case is being developed on existing enterprise data and analytics platforms within the agency rather than procuring additional platforms or SaaS to operate.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: No documentation is available: No documentation detailing model performance metrics, model architecture, features and intended use of the models have been created or are currently accessible to other data science teams within the agency.