# Using generative AI to gain insight of older adult falls
## HHS-2024-0088
_Department of Health and Human Services_ (HHS) / CDC


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Health & Medical
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: This solution will impact the process of extracting information from medical narratives 

Traditional methods of data and information extraction from medical narratives involve manual scrutiny and the use of rule-based models. These methods are time-consuming and can overlook crucial details. By utilizing generative AI, a more comprehensive understanding of the circumstances surrounding injuries from falls can be achieved. Understanding the specific causes, circumstances, and outcomes of falls can lead to more targeted public health interventions.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This solution extracts insights regarding older adult falls injuries from Emergency Department medical narratives and testing out methods submitted. The data source to be used is the National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS) data.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: 6/1/2024