# Analyzing Public Comments on Proposed Rule
## HHS-2024-0008
_Department of Health and Human Services_ (HHS) / ACF


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: In the federal rulemaking process, the public has an opportunity to provide comments on proposed new regulation. AI was used to support the public comment review process for a proposed rule to make quality improvements in the Head Start program.

The public comment analysis pipeline provided an Excel spreadsheet of comment segments that were tagged and Word files of topic-based summary drafts. Subject matter experts from the Office of Head Start reviewed comments by topic and further analyzed and refined the topic-based summaries.

The benefit of using AI for this purpose is improved baseline information following public comment to support more expeditious final rule development.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: A large language model (LLM) was used to tag public comments by: topics selected primarily by policy experts; sentiment; and intent (e.g. question, suggestion) alongside first drafts of topic-based summaries.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: 2/1/2024