# Collections Summarization Chatbot
## HHS-2024-0201
_Department of Health and Human Services_ (HHS) / NIH


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The artificial intelligence (AI) use case involves developing a chatbot that can answer contextual questions about collection objects that users are browsing within the NLM Digital Collections. The chatbot will not handle inquiries unrelated to collection objects or queries outside its defined scope. It utilizes the Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) framework on Amazon Web Services (AWS) to generate summaries or detailed answers based on the content users are viewing. The chatbot interface will integrate with existing NLM web technologies, activating when a user spends an extended time on a resource page. The AI system will use text data from the collection objects and associated metadata to generate responses. The primary business area for deployment will be within NLM’s digital services, focusing on enhancing user interaction and accessibility. 

The main goal is to provide users with concise summaries and detailed answers about NLM Digital Collections.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The input consists of text from documents or books within the Collection objects that users are viewing. The frequency of AI processing depends on how long users spend on the resource page. If users linger, the AI chatbot will prompt them with a summary of the resource they are viewing. The AI-generated output will be a summary of the resource presented in text format.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 7/1/2024