# Medicare Part C/D Plan Oversight of AI Used for Prior Authorization and Utilization Management
## HHS-2024-0114
_Department of Health and Human Services_ (HHS) / CMS


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Law & Justice
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Medicare beneficiary access to benefits, services, and prescriptions associated with managed care plans and prescription drug plans.

AI tools can increase the capacity to analyze vast data sets based on combined sources. The results can then be further analyzed and refined by SMEs to issue compliance actions, identify plans for program auditing, and help protect the integrity of the Medicare program.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Evaluate claims, payments, and complaints data to identify outliers. Determine if plans may be out of compliance with CMS rules or are negatively impacting beneficiary health outcomes based on plan use of AI and associated potential bias in system, process, or social determinates of health.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 11/1/2024