# A reusable NLP pipeline for clinical narratives preprocessing and characterization
## HHS-2024-0057
_[Department of Health and Human Services](../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md)_ (HHS) / CDC


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Health & Medical
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Data cleaning of Clinical narratives from health records. At scale, clinical narratives are a dataset available to CDC currently underutilized as there is not a structured pipeline to identify structured information output. We are currently working on setting up a process to create a pipeline that cleans data markup (html, rtf, xml) and identifies signs and symptoms using pre-trained Named Entity Recognition (NER) tasks from relevant models published in peer review journals. 





The use of these pretrained models significantly reduces  the amount of time a human to spend tagging data and provides additional features and increased consistency from unstructured data for identification of more novel insights.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The objective of this project is to take unstructured data, clean it, and use pretrained Named Entity Recognition (NER) tools to extract signs/symptoms in deidentified electronic health records that can be used to characterize a cohort or make further analysis.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 7/1/2024