# Unaccompanied Children Program Policy & Procedure Research Tool
## HHS-2024-0006
_[Department of Health and Human Services](<../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md>)_ (HHS) / ACF


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) conducts monitoring visits at least monthly to ensure that care providers meet minimum standards for the care and timely release of unaccompanied children, and that they abide by all Federal and State laws and regulations, licensing and accreditation standards, ORR policies and procedures, and child welfare standards. If ORR monitoring finds a care provider to be out of compliance with requirements, ORR issues corrective action findings and requires the care provider to resolve the issue within a specified time frame. Compliance determination involves research into the various laws, standards, policies, and procedures.

The UC Program Policy & Research Tool assists the UC monitoring team with research that in many cases take a long time. The goal of the  UC Program Policy & Research Tool is to speed up this research as children's health and well-being may be impacted before a corrective action finding is issued and the issue is resolved.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The UC Program Policy & Procedure Research Tool speeds up research of relevant laws, standards, policies, and procedures content curated and approved by ORR's policy team. This research is one part of the process that informs ORR's monitoring team's decisions on whether corrective actions are needed and if so, what corrective actions. AI is not used to suggest corrective actions but rather support determination of whether care providers are in compliance.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/1/2024
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 11/1/2024
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: 75D30122F15723
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: No training or fine-tuning. ORR-approved policy content are used as a data source for retrieval-augmented generation.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is complete
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: Horizon (ACF instance of Palantir Foundry)
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: More than 12 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: No
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: Re-use production level code and/or data products: This use case re-uses production level code as well as data products that have been published or made widely available for data science teams for within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Limited documentation for review: Some information regarding the model’s performance on specific benchmarks are available or have been shared with specific stakeholders within the agency.