# Reddit Post Analysis for Sexual Health Using Large Language Models
## HHS-2024-0086
_[Department of Health and Human Services](../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md)_ (HHS) / CDC


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Health & Medical
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The AI will impact the data extraction and analysis processes for understanding how users seek sexual health advice online using Reddit.

In additional to traditional public health impacts this can include reducing administrative burdens and other ancillary benefits. This is an important criteria when selecting the initial round of projects.
Understand how and why people seek sexual health advice online. This may lead to finding gaps in online health resources, identifying underserved populations who resort to using online resources, and discovering changes in sexual health behavior over time.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Reddit is a social media website where users can submit and respond to posts around a wide variety of topics. Reddit is organized into subcommunities called subreddits, and many people turn to sexual health focused subreddits, such as the “r/STD” subreddit, for advice. The Reddit posts can be a valuable source of text and image data since these posts reveal immediate sexual health concerns and questions that may be overlooked. However, the volume of posts makes large scale manual analysis impractical, and extracting insights using conventional methods is difficult. This solution uses large language models (LLMs) to assist in and automate data extraction and analysis to better understand how users seek sexual health advice online.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: 2/1/2024