# Mastering Metadata: AI-Powered Governance for Data Insights
## HHS-2024-0084
_Department of Health and Human Services_ (HHS) / CDC


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The implementation of this solution will have a significant influence on the maintenance of data quality and data assets on the data.cdc.gov platform.

Accurate, reliable, and timely data available in data.cdc.gov is critical in making meaningful public health decisions. This publicly available data repository is used worldwide by researchers, policy makers, and general public to access, manage, analyze, and visualize public health data. Through this project, we will be able to scale up the magnitude and quality of datasets from NCIRD that’s made available via data.cdc.gov and thus maximizing public health impact for a diverse audience at multiple levels.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: data.cdc.gov serves as a publicly accessible repository for CDC data, utilized by researchers, policymakers, and the general public to monitor and comprehend public health trends. Ensuring the accuracy and reliability of the data on data.cdc.gov is crucial for informed decision-making in public health. To achieve this, the proposed solution involves leveraging AI to maintain CDC's National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases data assets on data.cdc.gov to automate various tasks such as checking metadata completeness, validating metadata against a schema, comparing metadata with other sources, and monitoring metadata changes over time.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: 6/1/2024