# AI Solution for Research Funding Gap Analysis (RF-GAP)
## HHS-2024-0184
_[Department of Health and Human Services](<../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md>)_ (HHS) / NIH


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: NIA is focusing on identifying and addressing funding and publication gaps in NIH-funded research. Using text-mining and artificial intelligence techniques on data from both NIH and external sources, NIA aims to uncover research areas that need more funding or lack sufficient publication coverage. This approach will help NIA leadership make informed decisions, refine funding strategies, and enhance the overall impact of NIH-funded research. Program officers will utilize a user-friendly dashboard for actionable insights, simplifying the tracking of research outputs and identification of gaps.  1. Improved allocation of NIH funding through targeted identification of underfunded research areas and initiatives to address publication gaps. 2. Enhanced integration of data sources will provide a comprehensive view of research trends. AI-driven analysis will offer actionable insights into emerging research areas and future funding needs.  3. Customized dashboards will empower program officers with efficient tools to monitor and manage research portfolios, fostering transparency and maximizing operational efficiency across NIA. 

This approach will help NIA leadership make informed decisions, refine funding strategies, and enhance the overall impact of NIH-funded research.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Publication and Gap analysis reports.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 5/1/2024