# School LLM initial abstract review process
## HHS-2024-0064
_Department of Health and Human Services_ (HHS) / CDC


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Reviewing research related to school readiness science. CDC/DRRS' School Preparedness unit is responsible for developing research around readiness science. As part of this a large language model was used to abstract themes and code publications that were identified as related to school closure to aid us in supporting our research. If funding were to become available, we would like to develop this static, one-time product into a modifiable tool that could be used for ongoing article abstraction across school and other settings and population.

The AI allows us to efficiently categorize thousands of abstracts in a much shorter time-frame with much less human time required into a user-friendly dashboard.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The AI used a LLM to extract data from an abstract review and categorize relevant themes and topics into a user-friendly dashboard. This dashboard can be used by a health scientist to pull resources from 2012-2022   for specific school closure outcomes or themes.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 8/1/2023