# Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) Classification Model for Children using Deep Neural Network
## HHS-2024-0190
_Department of Health and Human Services_ (HHS) / NIH


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Health & Medical
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: This AI Use Case is Retired, No Longer in Use. The AI was used for evaluating whether a child around the age of 10 is exhibiting Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD), and its severity. 

This AI Use Case is Retired, No Longer in Use. The primary objective of the AI use case was to enhance the accuracy and efficiency of diagnosing Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) by automatically categorizing ASD using deep learning models trained on Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) hand tracking data. The AI aimed to address the complexity and variability in ASD diagnosis, which currently relies on subjective behavioral assessments.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The input data consists of four 3-dimensional vectors obtained from an IMU attached to the participant's hand while they perform cognitive and motor tasks. The classification result from the deep learning model outputs a value of 0 or 1, indicating ASD or typical development, respectively.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: 8/1/2024