# Triaging Notice of Concern Submissions
## HHS-2024-0005
_[Department of Health and Human Services](<../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md>)_ (HHS) / ACF


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) has amassed a large backlog of Notice of Concern (NOC) PDF forms that contain critical information regarding safety of children who have left ORR's care. 

The AI-powered triage tool will support Office of Refugee Resettlement staff more effectively and efficiently review NOCs by helping structure and prioritize received NOCs. Through more effective triage, ORR will begin to cut down on the large backlog that has accumulated.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: In the NOC triage system, AI will be used for two purposes:

1. We will use AI to parse the NOCs to generate structured fields from the text and validate categorizations.

2. AI will provide prioritization recommendations -- but not make decisions -- on the most critical NOCs for the ORR team to review first.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Safety-Impacting
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 6/1/2024
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 6/1/2024
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: 75D30122F15723
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: No
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: No training or fine tuning.  Notional NOCs were used to prompt engineer secure commercially-available LLMs and evaluate performance. End-user testing was used to evaluate on real NOCs.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation has been partially completed
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: Horizon (ACF instance of Palantir Foundry)
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: No
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: Re-use production level code and/or data products: This use case re-uses production level code as well as data products that have been published or made widely available for data science teams for within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Limited documentation for review: Some information regarding the model’s performance on specific benchmarks are available or have been shared with specific stakeholders within the agency.