# Outreach List Segmentation
## HHS-2024-0009
_[Department of Health and Human Services](<../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md>)_ (HHS) / ACF


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The Office of External Affairs (OEA) is responsible for sharing information from ACF with external constituents. OEA had a long list of constituent email addresses that were without context. They wanted the ability to send targeted emails to different groups of people whose organizations work in particular policy spaces.

The AI tool returned a spreadsheet of the provided domains with structured information on likely organization name, summary of their mission, policy domains (e.g. public health, education), and website. This spreadsheet allows OEA to segment their lists and target organizations more efficiently.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: An AI-enabled search tool was used to research likely organization name, purpose, and policy space based on the domains (e.g. "@organization.com")  from contact email addresses.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: 8/1/2024