# Generative AI (GenAI) Still Image Tagging
## HHS-2024-0215
_[Department of Health and Human Services](../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md)_ (HHS) / NIH


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The artificial intelligence (AI) use case will focus on identifying still images within the NLM Digital Collections that lack descriptions. This use case will employ Generative AI (GenAI) tools such as Amazon Web Services (AWS) Rekognition and/or AWS Bedrock to identify concepts and embedded text within these images. The AI system will not generate metadata for images that already have detailed descriptions or analyze images outside the NLM Digital Collections. The AI will connect with existing NLM metadata management systems, where the generated metadata will be stored and indexed. The primary types of data used will include image files from the digital collections and textual data derived from embedded text within those images. The AI system will be deployed within the NLM's business area, focusing specifically on enhancing the search and retrieval capabilities of the NLM Digital Collections.

The use case aims to automatically generate accurate metadata for under-described images in the NLM Digital Collections, enhancing their searchability and discoverability. This improvement will increase access to valuable medical and scientific resources, supporting research and public health initiatives.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Input consists of image binaries (tif, jpeg or PDF format) served from Collections website can be hosted on S3; Amount consists of untagged images within the repository, ballparked about 75,000 image objects, then about 10-100 per month based on monthly content ingestions.

Output should be AI generated classifications tags and/or AI generated image summary in text form.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 5/1/2024