# HIV Data Virtual Assistant
## HHS-2024-0040
_Department of Health and Human Services_ (HHS) / CDC


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The AI will impact the data retrieval and automation process for HIV researchers, specifically in providing information from datasets and potentially generating code for desired variable names and analysis or generating information about a particular dataset.

This solution aims to alleviate the challenges faced by scientists searching for the appropriate HIV-related data to address their inquiries. This will improve productivity and research efforts.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This AI assistant will use retrieval augmented generation (RAG) to return information related to HIV based on a user's query. Our aim is to input all dataset documentation and metadata into an index with the goal of creating a virtual assistant. This assistant offers support to our HIV researchers by providing the information they seek from the data and potentially generating SAS, R, or Python code for desired variable names. For instance, if we require a dataset containing HIV PrEP information, we can request it to generate a list of current datasets that contain data on PrEP medication usage in 2019, along with the associated variable names. Subsequently, we can instruct it to produce lines of code, such as a logistic regression, which can be readily copied and pasted into our analysis software of choice. Another example would be if our researchers would like information returned about a given dataset, this assistant could return specific information based on the researcher's query.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 11/1/2024
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 11/1/2024
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed in-house.
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: Internal documentation containing mapped eHARS LOINC codes, IQVIA data dictionaries
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is complete
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: Enterprise Data Analytics and Visualization (EDAV) Platform
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: Use of existing data platforms: This use case is being developed on existing enterprise data and analytics platforms within the agency rather than procuring additional platforms or SaaS to operate.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: No documentation is available: No documentation detailing model performance metrics, model architecture, features and intended use of the models have been created or are currently accessible to other data science teams within the agency.