# Grant Application Subject-Matter Classification Tool
## HHS-2024-0216
_Department of Health and Human Services_ (HHS) / NIH


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Health & Medical
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The algorithm is used to recommend a specific scientific area within the Division's portfolio with a specific confidence level. This reduces the time it takes to assign a Program Class Code and personnel assignment to every grant application received by NIEHS. It searches for key words within the title, abstract and specific aims in each grant application to determine the best scientific category. It is not used in combination with any other data sets. It uses grant application data from IMPAC II, which is imported into the Grants Funding Decision Tool (a NIEHS Custom Product).

Natural language processing of grant applications to assign scientific topics and corresponding Program Officer staff.  The subject-matter classification tool improves the efficiency of the grant administration process by automatically assigning incoming applications a subject matter classification based on the text content of their abstracts using a model derived from past human-classified examples. This classification helps route each application to the program officer with the greatest expertise in the inferred field of study.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Training set consists of an Excel spreadsheet containing human-classified grant proposal abstracts. Input file is an Excel table containing new unclassified grant proposal abstracts. Output is input file updated to include tool-assigned subject matter classifications.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 1/1/2016
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 1/1/2016
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 2/1/2020
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: Not Reported
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: No
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: No
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: Input data is provided to NIEHS by grant applicants, via the IMPAC II database.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is complete
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: Yes – agency has access to source code, but it is not public.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: No
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: No
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: No
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: Re-use production level code from a different use-case: This use case re-uses production level code and/or internally developed code libraries for model development from existing AI systems or repositories inside the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Limited documentation for review: Some information regarding the model’s performance on specific benchmarks are available or have been shared with specific stakeholders within the agency.