# Evaluating Generative AI for polio containment.
## HHS-2024-0062
_Department of Health and Human Services_ (HHS) / CDC


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Health & Medical
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The AI will impact the data retrieval and automation process for HIV researchers, specifically in providing information from datasets and potentially generating code for desired variable names and analysis or generating information about a particular dataset.

As polio eradication progresses, containment of poliovirus becomes critical. This project aims to identify and evaluate Generative AI tools to extract information from publications in an effort to identify poliovirus in places previously thought to be polio-free.  Identification of such a tool may diversify Polio and Picornavirus Branch's surveillance portfolio and increase Branch's capability of processing large volume of data for containment purposes. This project may support CDC PPLB’s polio surveillance activity and containment efforts.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This AI assistant will use retrieval augmented generation (RAG) to return information related to HIV based on a user's query. Our aim is to input all dataset documentation and metadata into an index with the goal of creating a virtual assistant. This assistant offers support to our HIV researchers by providing the information they seek from the data and potentially generating SAS, R, or Python code for desired variable names. For instance, if we require a dataset containing HIV PrEP information, we can request it to generate a list of current datasets that contain data on PrEP medication usage in 2019, along with the associated variable names. Subsequently, we can instruct it to produce lines of code, such as a logistic regression, which can be readily copied and pasted into our analysis software of choice. Another example would be if our researchers would like information returned about a given dataset, this assistant could return specific information based on the researcher's query.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 11/1/2023