# Automating LIMS Bioinformatics Workflow Configuration and Enhancing Lab Quality Management with AI
## HHS-2024-0059
_[Department of Health and Human Services](../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md)_ (HHS) / CDC


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The tool proposed will impact the laboratory bioinformatics workflow configuration within the Core Laboratory's Genomics Sequencing Lab (GSL). Specifically, it will improve the efficacy with Clarity LIMS for tracking and processing Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) samples. This includes the creation and customization of bioinformatics workflows in the Laboratory Information Management System, which is currently a time-consuming and expertise-intensive task for bioinformaticians and laboratory scientists.

The RAG system can potentially reduce the time required to configure Clarity LIMS workflows, enabling rapid deployment which is particularly crucial during pandemics or outbreak responses. By simplifying the workflow customization process through natural language inputs, it lowers the barrier to entry for laboratory scientists and bioinformaticians who may not be familiar with XML scripting. The system also enhances team learning and training by providing easy access to relevant documents on quality management and regulations, ensuring that all team members are well-informed about best practices.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: We propose to use a Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) framework for two primary functions: It converts natural language lab protocols into precise XML workflows that are compatible with Clarity LIMS. This conversion process involves understanding technical documentations and generating corresponding script code. In addition, it serves as an interactive knowledge base for documentation of Clarity LIMS and Laboratory Quality Management and Regulations.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 1/1/2024