# Improving Metadata Retrieval and Transformation for Metadata Management
## HHS-2024-0219
_[Department of Health and Human Services](../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md)_ (HHS) / NIH


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The Dataset Catalog (catalog) is a catalog of biomedical datasets from various repositories for users to search, discover, retrieve, and connect with datasets to accelerate scientific research. Metadata from included repositories and their datasets are needed to appropriately index them in the catalog. This manual process can be labor intense, and thus NLM is pilot testing the development of a working interface for internal users to retrieve the metadata information from external repositories' websites and then transform the data to a specific format used in internal metadata management for the Dataset Catalog. This is currently being developed behind NIH's firewall for a select internal user base. The artificial intelligence (AI) will automate the retrieval and transformation of metadata but will not replace human oversight in critical metadata curation tasks. Additional safeguards would make sense in a production environment. The AI uses information from publicly available biomedical data repository websites and internal metadata management systems. The AI uses metadata from biomedical repositories and will be deployed within data management and IT departments, particularly those involved in cataloging and metadata management.

Primary Objectives: Streamline metadata retrieval and transformation to improve efficiency and accuracy.

Anticipated Positive Outcomes: Resource savings, enhanced data quality, and improved management of the Data Set Catalog.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Inputs: Metadata from various biomedical repositories, internal schemas.

Outputs: Transformed metadata, Python scripts, user-friendly tools for metadata retrieval.

Frequency: Continuous retrieval and transformation as new metadata is ingested.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 11/1/2023
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 5/1/2023
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: 75N97023A00004/75N97023F00007
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: Website data (HTML, CSS, JavaScript), accessibility standards. Measures taken to ensure data accuracy and reliability: grounding, testing, evaluation, NIST framework.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is complete
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: No
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: Re-use production level code from a different use-case: This use case re-uses production level code and/or internally developed code libraries for model development from existing AI systems or repositories inside the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Limited documentation for review: Some information regarding the model’s performance on specific benchmarks are available or have been shared with specific stakeholders within the agency.