# Large Language Automation
## HHS-2024-0223
_[Department of Health and Human Services](<../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md>)_ (HHS) / NIH


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Automate use cases as indicated below.

1. Automate BOT to locate and extract Resource Sharing Plan from post awarded grant application and feed into Microsoft Azure AI to teach it to determine if grant application as written has met compliance. The RFA provides guidelines for grantees.
2. Generate summary for published papers.
3. Generate summary for papers for concept development, research data analysis or other internal work.
4. Generate summary as part of a preliminary review of documents.
5. Generate summary of public meetings.
6. Utilize existing MS Excel worksheets to automate templated emails.
7. Generate FAQs.
8. Produce training materials. 

The RFA: 
1) provides guidelines for grantees,
2) generates summary for published papers,
3) generates summary for papers for concept development, research data analysis or other internal work,
4) generates summary as part of a preliminary review of documents,
5) generates summary of public meetings,
6) utilizes existing MS Excel worksheets to automate templated emails,
7) generates FAQs, and
8) produces training materials.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Input: Push data into Microsoft Azure AI from QVR post awarded grant application data.

Output: Integration of Microsoft Azure AI with UiPath.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/1/2023