# SewerScout: Automated on-site sewage facility detection from aerial imagery to identify failed systems
## HHS-2024-0046
_Department of Health and Human Services_ (HHS) / CDC


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Health & Medical
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: This business process focuses on the automation of the accurate identification of onsite wastewater systems in state, tribal, local, and territorial (STLT) health jurisdictions. This application scans aerial imagery and uses object detection and image classification models to detect onsite sewage facilities. Initial work is focusing on the ability to identify known systems.

 The intent of this project is to identify failed systems, which can be sources of soil and drinking water contamination as well as vectors that carry or transmit disease in the community. This project will allow STLT partners to readily characterize the location and functional status of septic systems without the time and resource consuming effort of visiting each household. The resources in many local health districts (LHDs) are barely adequate to undertake assessments of suitability  for new systems (if not entirely contracted out) and most LHDs do not have any program to routinely inspect current systems. If successful, this project will allow state, tribal, local, and territorial public health departments to more easily identify failing septic systems and work to address them.  If successful, subsequent work will work on differentiating functional from failed systems. Identification of septic systems during routine operations would help bolster and expedite disaster response efforts after major disasters  by having a ready catalog of systems and using pre- / post-disaster satellite images to direct resources in a much more efficient way than on-the-ground door-to-door surveys in rural / remote locations.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The intent of this project is to identify failed wastewater systems, which can be sources of soil and drinking water contamination as well as vectors that carry or transmit disease in the community.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 1/1/2023
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 1/1/2023
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed in-house.
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: No
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: The project has not selected the final sources of data but no agency-owned data is anticipated to be used to train the model.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is widely available
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: Enterprise Data Analytics and Visualization (EDAV) Platform
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: More than 12 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: Use of existing data platforms: This use case is being developed on existing enterprise data and analytics platforms within the agency rather than procuring additional platforms or SaaS to operate.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Limited documentation for review: Some information regarding the model’s performance on specific benchmarks are available or have been shared with specific stakeholders within the agency.