# Site Application Analysis
## HHS-2024-0180
_[Department of Health and Human Services](<../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md>)_ (HHS) / HRSA


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The current application review process requires internal analysis to review many complex documents to determine Site Eligibility to employ a member of the NHSC or Nurse Corps. By enhancing this process with AI/ML support could revolutionize and streamline the NHSC, Substance Use Disorder Treatment and Recovery (STAR)and Nurse Corps Site Application Process.

This would improve the current highly manual process for reviewing Site applications for internal analysts but ensure that clinical sites are being approved for NHSC, Nurse Corps, and STAR LRP.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The Site Application Analysis (SA) is designed to support the evaluation of NHSC, STAR and Nurse Corps Site Applications. SA will allow for faster more accurate review of Site Applications and allow BHW Regional Analysts to focus on a higher value task. Current planning leverages Cloud-based services, Machine Learning, Recommendation Systems, Natural Language Understanding (NLU) and Text Analysis for the implementation.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Rights-Impacting
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 1/1/2025