# Structuring and Validating Completeness of Case Data Information
## HHS-2024-0004
_Department of Health and Human Services_ (HHS) / ACF


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: In accordance with the Ms L vs ICE settlement, the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) must provide specific pieces of information about family separations. Beginning November 2024, CPB will release this information. ACF's Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) plans to add family separation information to existing child profile information for reference.

The AI output structures free form data into a more easily searchable format. These data will be used to assist in the placement process.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Creates a structured data asset of  the critical data points needed about a separation case. AI will be used to conduct initial parsing of the data provided by CBP and highlight whether or not the required fields from the Ms L vs. ICE settlement are included and can therefore be updated into the child's profile in ORR's data system.  ORR's Intakes Team does final review and in cases where data appears to be missing, the ORR Intakes Team reaches back out to CBP for that information.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Safety-Impacting
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 8/1/2024
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 11/1/2024
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: 75D30122F15723
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: No
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: No training or fine tuning; we are prompting secure commercially-available LLMs.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation has been partially completed
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: Horizon (ACF instance of Palantir Foundry)
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: No
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: Re-use production level code and/or data products: This use case re-uses production level code as well as data products that have been published or made widely available for data science teams for within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Documentation has been developed: Complete documentation detailing model performance across a range of benchmarks, architecture, relevant features and information regarding the appropriate use of the model for predictive tasks has been created.