# Program Classification Coding
## HHS-2024-0245
_[Department of Health and Human Services](../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md)_ (HHS) / NIH


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: A machine learning model has been developed to provide Program Classification Code (PCC) suggestions to assist NIA Division Staff with their work. The model is trained using IMPAC II data and generates a report of the top three PCC suggestions for a selected council date. Users can filter the data view by IC/OrgCode and Program Officer names to further customize the results.

The Division staff is responsible for handling a large volume of applications during each council round, with the task of processing and assigning PCCs. To aid users, a solution has been developed that suggests the specific PCC that should be assigned to each application.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Model Inputs: Impac II data fields (Specific Aims, Project Title, and Study Section).

Output is top 3 predicted PCCs. User views list of applications and top 3 suggestions by clicking on a report for the selected council date. User can filter view by IC/OrgCode and Program Officers names.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/1/2023