# Sequential Coverage Algorithm (SCA) and partial Expectation-Maximization (EM) estimation in Record Linkage
## HHS-2024-0080
_Department of Health and Human Services_ (HHS) / CDC


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Health & Medical
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: CDC's National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) Data Linkage Program has developed a record linkage program designed to maximize the scientific value of the Center’s population-based surveys. Linked data files enable researchers to examine the factors that influence disability, chronic disease, health care utilization, morbidity, and mortality. The linkage algorithms initially used by the program did not implement machine learning in either deterministic or probabilistic linkages and required several manual steps for these processes. 

Using machine learning in the CDC's National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) Data Linkage Program offers several benefits. Machine learning algorithms help improve the accuracy and efficiency of data linkage by developing joining methods or blocking groups.  Working with very large datasets can be time-consuming and resource-intensive. By implementing supervised and unsupervised machine learning techniques, the Data Linkage Program can automate the process of developing and selecting blocking groups, reducing manual effort and increasing efficiency. This additionally improves the scalability of data linkages. Machine learning algorithms can continuously learn and adapt based on new data inputs and feedback. This allows the Data Linkage Program to refine their linkage algorithms over time.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: CDC's National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) Data Linkage Program has implemented both supervised and unsupervised machine learning (ML) techniques in their linkage algorithms. The Sequential Coverage Algorithm (SCA), a supervised ML algorithm, is used to develop joining methods (or blocking groups) when working with very large datasets. The unsupervised partial Expectation-Maximization (EM) estimation is used to estimate the proportion of pairs that are matches within each block. Both methods improve linkage accuracy and efficiency.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 2/1/2019
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 8/1/2019
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 8/1/2020
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: No
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: Data used to evaluate the models include data from the National Hospital Care Survey, the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, and the National Health Interview Survey as well as linked administrative data.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is widely available
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: Sex/Gender
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: Yes – agency has access to source code, but it is not public.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: Consolidated Statistical Platform
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: 6-12 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: Re-use production level code and/or data products: This use case re-uses production level code as well as data products that have been published or made widely available for data science teams for within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Documentation has been developed: Complete documentation detailing model performance across a range of benchmarks, architecture, relevant features and information regarding the appropriate use of the model for predictive tasks has been created.