# Respiratory Virus Response (RVR) Data Analysis Concept
## HHS-2024-0063
_[Department of Health and Human Services](../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md)_ (HHS) / CDC


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Health & Medical
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: This solution will impact the process of summarizing subject matter expert (SME) interpretations/knowledge during a response. 

Response efforts require prompt turnaround of essential information to the public. This project will impact public health by improving the efficiency of dissemination of information through production of key takeaways which can then be quickly reviewed by SMEs and cleared. This project will also allow for improved understanding of limitations and uncertainties in use of AI methods that could contribute to improved implementation of such methods in public health.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The goal of this solution is to evaluate how AI can be implemented in the process of summarizing subject matter expert (SME) interpretations/knowledge to improve efficiency in knowledge dissemination during a response.  As part of the proof-of-concept, we  seek to evaluate the limitations and uncertainties of AI methods in this use-case, such as bias and hallucinations as such issues will require mitigation before this method can be broadly adopted. Our proposed approach would make use of the ChatGPT interface through EDAV (or alternative accepted platform) as our prompts will include uncleared data from the Respiratory Virus Response (RVR). In this response,  SMEs from different groups provide bulleted information that then needs to be further summarized to address key takeaways.   Bullets from prior weeks will prompt AI to generate summaries. The initial approach will focus on engineering prompts to get key takeaways while future iterations may require fine-tuning to allow for better contextualization of responses as well as improvements in tone and style.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 6/1/2024