# The School Closure Awareness System
## HHS-2024-0055
_[Department of Health and Human Services](../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md)_ (HHS) / CDC


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Emergency Management
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Identifying unplanned school closures. CDC is responsible for supporting schools before, during, and after and emergency. During COVID 19 this included monitoring school closure or virtual status and reporting this to federal partners, the White House, and the public. Due to cost the process used during COVID was no longer feasible and ceased in DEC 2022. We explored multiple ways to capture this data and our current system met the need best. 

This AI has allowed us to save nearly 2-million-dollars from contracting fees and decrease human work hours by 200 hours. It has made the capture of some of this data possible after cessation of the process used during COVID 19 which we could no longer support. The AI supported system is faster and captures more information about individual closures than the original human-powered process.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This system uses publicly available Facebook posts from approximately 40,000 school or district Facebook accounts. Then uses a large language model to categorize posts as unplanned school closure for several types of events (weather, health, facility issues, safety). It also will denote the type of status change (full closure, virtual, hybrid, or early / late dismissal). The data is checked and recoded (if needed) by a staff person every 24 hours.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Implementation and Assessment
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 7/1/2022
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 11/1/2022
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed in-house.
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: No
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: No
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: None
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation has been partially completed
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: Yes – agency has access to source code, but it is not public.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: Enterprise Data, Analytics, and Visualization Platform
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: More than 12 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: Use of existing data platforms: This use case is being developed on existing enterprise data and analytics platforms within the agency rather than procuring additional platforms or SaaS to operate.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Documentation has been published: Complete documentation has been published to a repository or data catalog within the agency and is made accessible to other data science teams for review and feedback.