# Enhancing Diversity in Peer Review - Pilot
## HHS-2024-0019
_[Department of Health and Human Services](<../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md>)_ (HHS) / AHRQ


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The Division of Scientific Review (DSR) is aiming to enhance diversity in AHRQ peer review groups by revising recruitment strategies, aiming for 20% representation from underrepresented minorities in each study section. This process, involving networking, outreach, and various resources, typically takes at least three months.

By utilizing AI to swiftly and accurately identify diverse and qualified grant reviewers, our agency will foster a more efficient process for identifying scientific reviewers and a more equitable and inclusive scientific review process. This will help us achieve our goal of providing safer, high-quality, accessible, and affordable healthcare to individuals and communities throughout the U.S., thereby improving the overall effectiveness of our agency.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This AI use case will involve training an artificial intelligence system to examine the background of peer reviewers - taking into account factors such as expertise, race/ethnicity, gender, and geographic area - and match these inputs to the relevant study section, subsequently referring the reviewer to the Scientific Review Officer (SRO). This flexible system will empower SROs to make the final recruitment decision or to refer the expert to another study section or Special Emphasis Panel (SEP).
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 6/1/2024