# Automated Analysis of Injury Control Research Center (ICRC) Annual Progress Reports (APRs) using Large Language Models
## HHS-2024-0035
_[Department of Health and Human Services](../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md)_ (HHS) / CDC


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: This AI affects the process of reviewing and analyzing the Annual Progress Reports (APRs) submitted by Injury Control Research Centers (ICRCs). Specifically, the AI will focus on identifying and analyzing text sections of the APRs that detail reported challenges, as well as other text-heavy sections in future stages of the project. The AI is designed to streamline the review process, improve efficiency, and support the evaluation of the performance and progress of ICRC-funded activities.

The output of the AI will help to quickly and efficiently identify key challenges and insights from ICRC APRs, enabling more effective decision-making in the review process. By automating the extraction and analysis of critical information, the AI allows the ICRC team to focus on higher-level evaluation and strategic planning. The AI will help reduce the time and resources needed for manual review, improve the consistency and accuracy of assessments, and facilitate faster responses to ICRC needs. Ultimately, this will support ICRCs in overcoming challenges and achieving their research and injury control goals, benefiting the public health system as a whole.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The AI analyzes the textual content of APRs. We have started our analysis by focusing on the sections detailing the challenges faced by ICRCs during the 2019 funding cycle. The AI identifies key themes, trends, and critical information that may require further attention. The AI methodology extracts insights and patterns from the data, which can then be compared with manual qualitative analysis outcomes. In subsequent stages, the AI will be expanded to analyze other sections of the APRs, such as progress toward goals and program impact.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 8/1/2023
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 12/1/2023
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed in-house.
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: No
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: Injury Control Research Center Annual Progress Reports
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is widely available
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: Enterprise Data Analytics and Visualization (EDAV) Platform
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: Use of existing data platforms: This use case is being developed on existing enterprise data and analytics platforms within the agency rather than procuring additional platforms or SaaS to operate.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Limited documentation for review: Some information regarding the model’s performance on specific benchmarks are available or have been shared with specific stakeholders within the agency.