# Development of in-silico genomic and patient datasets using generative ML algorithms
## HHS-2024-0083
_[Department of Health and Human Services](../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md)_ (HHS) / CDC


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: This solution will impact the process of finding reference genomes

Reduce the development time of custom tools, finding reference genomes, and additional administrative burdens. The datasets developed would be beneficial in testing out bioinformatic pipelines.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This solution uses NLP generative AI toolsets (e.g. ChatGPT, co-pilot, etc.) to generate code for the development of bacterial and viral in-silico genomic sequences and patient data. This will be compared to already established pipelines to determine factors such as code viability, data accuracy, code licensing, and any drawbacks and/or advantages these services provide. For example, we would ask GPT-4 a prompt, "generate python code to create Sars COV2 in-silico fastq sequencing data.". We will look at where did it reference the code base to generate the code and is it open source or have licensing requirements.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: 2/1/2024