# NLM-Gene: towards automatic gene indexing in PubMed articles
## HHS-2024-0239
_Department of Health and Human Services_ (HHS) / NIH


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: NLM is the world’s largest biomedical library. MEDLINE is NLM's bibliographic database that contains references to journal articles in life sciences, with a concentration on biomedicine. Gene indexing improves literature retrieval and information access.

 To assist this time-consuming and resource-intensive process, NLM developed NLM-Gene, an automatic tool for finding gene names in the biomedical literature using advanced natural language processing and deep learning methods.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Gene indexing is part of the NLM's MEDLINE citation indexing efforts for improving literature retrieval and information access. Currently, gene indexing is performed manually by expert indexers.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 1/1/2020