# Automation of Receipt & Referral Process of NIDDK grant applications
## HHS-2024-0195
_[Department of Health and Human Services](../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md)_ (HHS) / NIH


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: This use case is centrally reported under OER's Internal Referral Module. NIDDK receives about 100 to 500 applications per week. NIDDK referral staff uses the IMPAC II QVR tool to stratify the applications between divisions based on a “Like Matrix” function to match the Division’s portfolios and the Title, Abstract, and specific aims of grant applications. This process is laborious and manual. Hence, automation was proposed. The scope of the effort is to provide a capability for NIDDK to analyze grant applications using NIDDK-specific business rules, complete the pilot, and the full implementation of the Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Natural Language Processing (NLP) tools for auto assignment of program class codes.

NIDDK receives about 100 to 500 applications per week. The AI and machine learning tool will stratify the applications between programmatic divisions and Program Class Code (PCC) to match the Division’s portfolios based on the Title, Abstract, and specific aims of grant applications. It collectively saves NIDDK Program and Referral Staff 3000+ hours annually on Receipt and Referral activities. In addition, it instantly recommends PCC, allows Division designees to accept or change recommendations, tracks all grants that need PCC assignment, gives real-time information about the application status, and support business rules/generates reports.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Input: Title, Abstract, Public Health Narrative, Specific Aims of grant applications from the FY 2018 to 2022.

Output: Division and Program Class Code (PCC) of grants from FY 23/24.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/1/2021
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 10/1/2021
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 10/1/2023
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: 2-DK22-560-02 and OER-23-014
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: No
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: Yes, It used the NIH/NIDDK grants applications data submitted by research investigators. The prediction models use the Title, Abstract, Public Health Narrative, and specific aims of grant applications from the FY 2018 to 2022 to train the models and FY 23 and F24 grants applications data were used for predicting programmatic divisions and Program Class Codes (PCC).
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is complete
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: No – agency does not have access to source code.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: No
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: 6-12 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: None: This use case does not re-use any internally developed tooling or managed infrastructure from any other AI development efforts within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Limited documentation for review: Some information regarding the model’s performance on specific benchmarks are available or have been shared with specific stakeholders within the agency.