# Semi-Automated Nonresponse Detection for Surveys (SANDS)
## HHS-2024-0079
_[Department of Health and Human Services](../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md)_ (HHS) / CDC


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: SANDS is a fine-tuned large language model (LLM) designed to assist with human-in-the-loop procedures specifically for open-ended survey responses. Open-ended survey responses vary in quality and are challenging to use effectively because they are labor-intensive to review and therefore cost-prohibitive to use at scale. SANDS is intended to reduce the burden by filtering out clear and obvious non-response such as  "This is so dumb, why I am I wasting my time on such a stupid question" or "Because It is true" which provide no value to researchers. This LLM is available on HuggingFace and is not routinely updated, but it can be used like any open-source LLM through secure instances of Python.

Manual curation of open-ended survey responses is time-consuming, often requiring extensive hours to identify themes and review outputs. SANDS significantly reduces this manual burden by providing scores for responses, enabling researchers to quickly compile an initial high-quality dataset for qualitative research. SANDS also flags responses needing further examination, streamlining the review process.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: CDC's National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) has developed and released a model to detect nonresponses in open-text survey responses. This helps improve survey data quality and question and questionnaire design. The system is a natural language processing (NLP) model that has been fine-tuned on a custom dataset of survey responses.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 6/1/2021
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 9/1/2021
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 9/1/2022
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed in-house.
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: No
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: 3,000 labeled open-ended responses to web probes on questions relating to the COVID-19 pandemic gathered from the Research and Development Survey or RANDS conducted by the Division of Research and Methodology at the National Center for Health Statistics
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is widely available
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: Yes – agency has access to source code, but it is not public.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: No
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: None: This use case does not re-use any internally developed tooling or managed infrastructure from any other AI development efforts within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Documentation has been published: Complete documentation has been published to a repository or data catalog within the agency and is made accessible to other data science teams for review and feedback.