# Research Performance Progress Report (RPPR) Report Comparison
## HHS-2024-0248
_[Department of Health and Human Services](<../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md>)_ (HHS) / NIH


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The National Institute on Aging (NIA) handles a significant number of grant applications annually, requiring thorough review to prevent duplication, identify changes, and ensure optimal resource allocation. The current manual review process involves detailed comparisons across grant documents from different years, checking for overlaps with other projects, and summarizing extensive scientific text. With each Program Officer (PO) managing between 50 to 200+ grants and overseeing a total of $4 billion in grant funding, the process is highly time-consuming and prone to errors. 

Streamline the NIA grant application review process.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Input: Grants data from QVR.

Output: Identification of duplication and overlap in grants year over year.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 5/1/2024