# Scholarship Insight
## HHS-2024-0179
_Department of Health and Human Services_ (HHS) / HRSA


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The NHSC and Nurse Corps Scholarship reviewers need to receive and score thousands of essays submitted and the manual process delays the application processes. We are looking forward to building a Generative AI program that looks at all of the previous essays and how the scoring rubric was done and train it to do the first cut at scoring the essays. This could enhance the fairness and efficiency of scholarship evaluations, ensuring a thorough review process that supports equitable student opportunities.

Reduce the amount of time required for internal or external reviews to evaluated NHSC and Nurse Corps scholarship applications and ensure that human reviewers are following the appropriate scoring rubric.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The Scholarship Insight (SI) is designed to support the evaluation of scholarship essays for both the NHSC and Nurse Corps Scholarship Programs by providing detailed analysis to human graders. Aligning with directives to ensure human oversight, SI identifies key themes, strengths, and weaknesses in essays, facilitating a more informed grading process without replacing human judgment. Current planning leverages Cloud-based services, Natural Language Understanding (NLU), Text Analysis, LLM API and Data analysis tools for the implementation.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Rights-Impacting
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 1/1/2025