# Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) with Q-Bank
## HHS-2024-0087
_[Department of Health and Human Services](../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md)_ (HHS) / CDC


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: This solution will impact the process of searching CCQDER’s Q-Bank research publications on question evaluation for surveys. 

Q-Bank reports provide context needed to better understand and interpret data from survey estimates, as well as information about question performance and fit-for-use in various data collection contexts.
This project aims to improve access and visibility of CCQDER’s Q-Bank research publications on question evaluation for surveys. Additionally, indexing Q-Bank as part of this project should help to relieve some of the administrative burden of tagging and organizing reports.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This solution uses Retrieval Augmented Generation to develop an LLM-based search tool based on the Collaborating Center for Questionnaire Design and Evaluation Research’s (CCQDER) Q-Bank reports. The main motivation of the solution is to make it easier to navigate and identify reports relevant to a user’s research interests. Because the reports are already publicly available and they represent a relatively small corpus, they provide an excellent opportunity to develop prototype AI tools.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: 6/1/2024