# Semantic group prediction in the UMLS Metathesaurus
## HHS-2024-0250
_Department of Health and Human Services_ (HHS) / NIH


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Developing AI approaches (neural networks, heuristics) to predict the semantic groups of new terms to be added to the Unified Medical Language System (UMLS) Metathesaurus.   This is used during new concept integration into the UMLS Metathesaurus and is only intended to interact with the new concepts that will be added and existing UMLS Metathesaurus concepts.  There is no training or intended use of this product for sensitive data.  The hybrid system combining deep learning and heuristics should be able to effectively support UMLS editing and quality assurance. 

Support UMLS Metathesaurus editing.  This should dramatically reduce the time needed to integrate new concepts into the UMLS Metathesaurus and increase the consistency.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Input: UMLS Metathesaurus (new concepts).

Output: Semantic group(s) for the new concept. Concepts are typically text words or phrases for example ""Lung Cancer"", ""heart attack"". This is used yearly when it is time to add new concepts to the UMLS Metathesaurus.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 7/1/2021
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 11/1/2021
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: GSA Contract Number: 47QTCA18D00JA
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: UMLS Metathesaurus was used for development, training, and testing of the developed software.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is missing or not available
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: No
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: No
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: Re-use production level code and/or data products: This use case re-uses production level code as well as data products that have been published or made widely available for data science teams for within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: No documentation is available: No documentation detailing model performance metrics, model architecture, features and intended use of the models have been created or are currently accessible to other data science teams within the agency.