# Document drafting and editing
## HHS-2024-0269
_[Department of Health and Human Services](../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md)_ (HHS) / SAMHSA


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: SAMHSA employees routinely write internal reports, public-facing written products, and other documents. Some parts of the writing process, such as structuring thoughts into an outline and proofreading, can be enhanced through the use of AI.

The document drafting and editing tool will increase employee productivity and help produce polished written work products.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The document drafting and editing tool will serve as a writing assistant to help SAMHSA employees present their ideas clearly and effectively. It will function similarly to a standard large language model chatbot, allowing the user to query the model to perform specific writing tasks, such as outlining and proofreading.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 8/1/2024