# Creation of synthetic Survey-like Insurance Names for use coding NHIS private insurance responses
## HHS-2024-0082
_[Department of Health and Human Services](<../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md>)_ (HHS) / CDC


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Health & Medical
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: This solution will impact the process of manual coding and reviewing text errors in the National Health Interview Survey 

Previous efforts to augment the manual coding have proven ineffective. Given the complex nature of insurance programs, this results in over 200 FTE hours a year being spent on just the initial coding of open text insurance fields. Additional hours are spent reviewing the manual coding for errors. By creating survey-like insurance responses, this could theoretically save over 100 hours of staff labor a year, greatly increasing efficiency and timeliness.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The National Health Interview Survey calculates insurance coverage rates among the US non-institutionalized resident population, including statistics of the percentage of people with private insurance coverage. The collection of information on insurance coverage is accomplished in two parts. First, survey respondents self-identify the type of insurance they have. Secondly, to aid in the verification of insurance type, survey respondents also provide the name of the health plan or program they have in an open text field. The information collected in the open text field may include misspellings, acronyms, and rarely match exactly the true complete insurance plan name. 

This leads to a time intensive process as staff may need to decipher the plan name in the open text field mentioned by the respondent and/or abbreviated by the interviewer and if that plan name confirms the correct type of insurance initially indicated during the interview process. By creating AI generated known acronyms as data points for projects, as an example Blue Cross Blue Shield of Alabama to BCBS of AL and BC/BS of AL, this will create a more representative set of information for staff to use when coding potential saving up to hundreds of FTE hours reviewing responses. This also works in combination with existing efforts to augment manual coding with AI and Machine Learning to increase efficiency.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: 6/1/2024