# Assisted Referral Tool
## HHS-2024-0189
_Department of Health and Human Services_ (HHS) / NIH


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Health & Medical
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Review activities of the Center for Scientific Review (CSR) are organized into Review Branches (RBs). Each RB represents a cluster of study sections around a general scientific area. Grant applications generally are assigned first to an RB, and then to a specific study section within that RB for evaluation of scientific merit.

To provide assistance in assigning appropriate scientific areas for grant applications.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The Assisted Referral Tool (ART) recommends potentially appropriate study sections, based on the scientific content of a user’s grant application.  The user enters the application text and hits the Submit button to get a list of relevant study sections (scientific areas) in two groups, as “Strong” and “Possible” matches. The information provided to ART is only used to recommend study sections and is not stored or persisted.   The recommendations made by ART are solely for the benefit of the user.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 1/1/2014
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 1/1/2014
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 1/1/2015
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed in-house.
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: Yes
+ **Description of how the agency is ensuring that this AI use case is compliant with Information Quality Act guidelines and OMB Memorandum M-19-15, if applicable**: This use case is operated in compliance with HHS's agencywide Information Quality Act policy and procedures.
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: No
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: IMPACII
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is missing or not available
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: No – agency does not have access to source code.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: Center for Scientific Review  General Support System (CSR GSS)
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: No
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: Re-use production level code from a different use-case: This use case re-uses production level code and/or internally developed code libraries for model development from existing AI systems or repositories inside the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: No documentation is available: No documentation detailing model performance metrics, model architecture, features and intended use of the models have been created or are currently accessible to other data science teams within the agency.