# PII detection using Private AI
## HHS-2024-0085
_[Department of Health and Human Services](<../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md>)_ (HHS) / CDC


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Numerous data sources contain personally identifiable information (PII) and protected health information (PHI), which cannot be publicly published or shared among federal partners due to confidentiality concerns. This includes sensitive records like death certificates, survey responses, and electronic health records. To enable broader utilization of this data and enhance insights, a PII detection system was explored in this project. Specifically, the availability of an off-the-shelf tool called Private AI was investigated for identifying PII. However, it is important to note that the license for this tool expired after one year and there are no current plans to renew the contract.

At present, the presence of PII within data and the labor intensive process to ensure PII redaction and removal has prevented broader sharing of data available within CDC. However, implementing an automated system which performs as well as humans and more quickly could significantly reduce the time required for human review, enabling faster dissemination of crucial public health information and data sources.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: CDC's National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) has been assessing the NLP solution provided by Private AI, which is specifically designed to detect, mask, and substitute personally identifiable information (PII) within textual data. This collection of models aims to securely identify and eliminate PII from unstructured text datasets across various platforms within the CDC network.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: 3/1/2024