# Machine learning pipeline for mining citations from full-text scientific articles
## HHS-2024-0261
_[Department of Health and Human Services](../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md)_ (HHS) / NIH


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Health & Medical
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The NIH Office of Portfolio Analysis developed a machine learning pipeline to identify scientific articles that are freely available on the internet  and do not require an institutional library subscription to access. The pipeline harvests full-text pdfs, converts them to xml, and uses a Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) recurrent neural network model that discriminates between reference text and other text in the scientific article. The LSTM-identified references are then passed through our Citation Resolution Service. For more information see the publication describing this pipeline: Hutchins et al 2019 (https://journals.plos.org/plosbiology/article?id=10.1371/journal.pbio.3000385#sec003).

Retired use case
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The pipeline harvests full-text pdfs, converts them to xml, and uses a Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) recurrent neural network model that discriminates between reference text and other text in the scientific article. The LSTM-identified references are then passed through our Citation Resolution Service.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: 9/1/2023