# Applying for Grants Chat Bot
## HHS-2024-0187
_[Department of Health and Human Services](../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md)_ (HHS) / NIH


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: A chatbot can significantly aid prospective grantees by providing instant, detailed information on specific grants, including eligibility criteria, application deadlines, and required documentation. It can guide users through the application process step-by-step, recommend additional resources for grant writing, and help determine eligibility to save time. Additionally, chatbots can assist in tracking application status, address common FAQs, and gather data on user needs. A chatbot streamlines the grant application process, reduces frustration, and enhances the overall experience for those seeking funding. 

It can guide users through the application process step-by-step, recommend additional resources for grant writing, and help determine eligibility to save time.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Targets resources related to probing questions for end users.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 9/1/2023