# Chatbot within Hub
## HHS-2024-0110
_[Department of Health and Human Services](../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md)_ (HHS) / CMS


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Currently the following help support activities are handle by a person:
Personalized FAQ’s; 
Clarify questions with schema and onboarding etc.; 
Handle - Where is “My file” or “My Request” inquiries
Provide a - Talk to Agent feature
Scheduling a testing window
Provide data summarization and reporting for internal stakeholders
Report operational health of the system
Include training materials, Q/A about the system and such.

Help support team in day-to-day communication with external partners
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Build a chatbot that will address some help support activities through:
Access to Internal Knowledge base Including RAG (Retrieval Augmented Generation).
Personalized FAQ’s & Contextual generation.
Interaction with Live Agent.
Chat & Talk Feature.
Ability to query custom data source for File or Case status.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 9/1/2024