# Policy Assistant
## HHS-2024-0177
_[Department of Health and Human Services](<../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md>)_ (HHS) / HRSA


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: HRSA is looking forward to leveraging Generative AI tools to support and enhance the current drafting of several policy documents, funding opportunities, and notices. This could streamline the policy development process, reduce drafting time, and improve document quality by providing critical analysis and suggestions for improvement, thus enhancing the overall policy-making workflow.

Reduce the amount of time required to develop first drafts of key BHW policy documents including APGs, NOFOs, budget documents
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The Policy Assistant (PA) is an innovative application utilizing large language models (LLMs) to generate first drafts of key policy documents. Inputs can include example documents, style guides, and key policy decisions and other documents in the Knowledge Navigator. PA also features an editing tool that scrutinizes drafts for inconsistencies or errors, offering feedback for refinement. Current planning leverages Cloud-based services, LLM, Text processing and analysis tools, Natural Language Generation (NLG) and Text Analysis for the implementation.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 3/1/2024