# DGMH AI Chatbot
## HHS-2024-0060
_[Department of Health and Human Services](<../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md>)_ (HHS) / CDC


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The DGMH AI chatbot would assist with developing an initial draft response to  inquiries where the response could have been found on our website. This would allow DGMH staff to have a starting point on a response to edit and clear. Additionally, the response could be adjusted for plain language to assist in ensuring the inquirer understands the response being sent back to them. The AI chatbot would allow inquiries to be responded to quicker and would allow staff to focus on other high priority items as well.   

The project will rely on using Retrieval-Augmentation Generation (RAG) to identify relevant information from CDC’s relevant website pages to generate relevant responses using AI. Evaluation of the project will assess how accurate the response was, how complete it was, and how much revision was needed. Evaluation would also explore the answer and if the answer that was generated was consistent throughout time if multiple people asked similar questions.   The goal is consistency of content rather than tone/plain language. The chatbot will help to reduce the turnaround time for responding to inquiries and free up time for staff to address other priorities.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: CDC's Division of Global Migration Health receives inquires for information which is available publicly in some form but may be hard to find and requires staff responding to these inquiries to have a broad knowledge and can be time intensive to respond to. The AI Chatbot will draft an initial response to questions using content available on CDC’s public-facing webpages. Each response goes through the existing CDC clearance process regardless of if AI is used, but the Chatbot helps provide an initial draft based on previously published content. The goal is to help with responding to different inquiries the division receives, including but not limited to CDC-INFO and media.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/1/2024