# Medicare Part C/D Marketing Material Review
## HHS-2024-0113
_[Department of Health and Human Services](<../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md>)_ (HHS) / CMS


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Drug and Health Plan Operations (DHPO) staff reviews both advertising mediums and channels materials that includes over 22  different types of media marketing materials ranging from written, digital, and more. The marketing materials are submitted to CMS from either the Medicare Health Plans and/or their third party marketing organizations. DHPO staff reviews these marketing materials to ensure they meet Medicare Marketing Guidelines. 

The current process is time consuming and resource intensive. This reduces the efficiency and quality of staff reviews. AI can improve the efficiency and quality of the marketing materials reviewed; with human validation of results. Incorporating AI into current review process can reduce the time it takes to review marketing materials, improve efficiency and allow existing FTE resources to be utilized more efficiently, and potentially reduce the volume of marketing misrepresentation complaints.  Ideally this will improve efficiency and quality, help beneficiaries access to care, and also ensure marketing materials meets Medicare Marketing Guidelines.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The AI tool required has not been identified as we still need to develop a proof of concept.  We anticipate AI would learn the various requirements for Marketing materials to help identify issues and compliance with applicable policies and regulations.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/1/2024