# DECIDE
## HHS-2024-0268
_[Department of Health and Human Services](../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md)_ (HHS) / SAMHSA


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Health & Medical
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: At present, SAMHSA's Office of Behavioral Health Equity (OBHE) manually reviews grantee organizations' progress towards achieving their health disparity reduction goals. This process involves manually extracting Disparity Impact Statements, annual reports, enrollment data, and external population data to verify the accuracy of grantees' reported progress. This is a time-consuming process, thus the development of an AI-based tool for doing this review is in development.

DECIDE will reduce the administrative burden on OBHE staff and allow them to provide feedback to grantees more quickly.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: DECIDE will use generative AI to automate the process of extracting data from various sources, then comparing across data sources to determine (a) whether a grantee has accurately reported the demographic data of the population they serve and (b) how much progress they have made towards decreasing health disparities for the vulnerable population they have identified.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 6/1/2024