# Use of Natural Language Processing for Topic Modeling to Automate Review of Public Comments to Notice of Proposed Rulemaking
## HHS-2024-0049
_Department of Health and Human Services_ (HHS) / CDC


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: This use case is aimed to assist in the review of public comments for Notices of Proposed Rulemaking. All responses are manually reviewed following this tool usage.

By law, Public comments are required to be manually review for any notice of public rule making. These comments are highly labor intensive due to both the quantity and wide range of potential opinions shared by the public. These comments can range in both length of response and quantity serving as a challenge for properly ensuring the insights from the public are accurately gathered in the review process. By using an LLM based Topic Modeling approach, manual reviewers can organize responses based upon theme to enhance both the insights gained, the speed of manual review, and ensure all topics mentioned can be accurately reported in all review processes. This process can use open source python libraries and open-source LLMs to complete different actions. This AI methodology enables manual review processes to be more effective in gaining insights from the public, better organized in themes and categories present within text, and reduce the burden of manual review of comments from notices of proposed rulemaking required by law.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Generates clusters of similar public comments to a 'notice of proposed rulemaking' to aid in manual review.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 2/1/2023
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 4/1/2023
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed in-house.
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: No
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: None
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation has been partially completed
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: Enterprise Data, Analytics, and Visualization Platform
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: None: This use case does not re-use any internally developed tooling or managed infrastructure from any other AI development efforts within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Limited documentation for review: Some information regarding the model’s performance on specific benchmarks are available or have been shared with specific stakeholders within the agency.