# Portfolio Analysis Summarization Tool (PAST)
## HHS-2024-0244
_Department of Health and Human Services_ (HHS) / NIH


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: This AI Use Case is leveraging Power BI to present a dynamic view of grants within their portfolio, enabling program staff to explore their data interactively. Program staff face challenges in navigating and understanding extensive narratives within grants due to time constraints and the volume of information. The proposed Open AI sandbox will address these challenges by providing concise, AI-generated summaries of grant-related texts, including Titles, Abstracts, Specific Aims, and Research Strategies.  

Rapid summarization of custom research portfolios which will be used to support program staff and others across the institute.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Input: Grants data from QVR.

Output: Summaries of grant-related texts
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/1/2023