# NLQuery- As Data or Pulse
## HHS-2024-0020
_[Department of Health and Human Services](<../3_agency/Department of Health and Human Services.md>)_ (HHS) / AHRQ


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: As a feature to clinical dashboards available on a secured page on the Patient Safety Organization Privacy Protection Center website for PSOs who submit data, provides capability to allow user to type a question in common language and instantly get a response. Answers come in the form of automatic data visualizations, with no need to manually drag-and-drop fields or understand the nuances of user's data’s structure.

Improved functionality of the clinical dashboards.  Potential to encourage additional reporting of data in light of benefit to user.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Provide capability to allow user to type a question in common language and instantly get a response . Answers come in the form of automatic data visualizations, with no need to manually drag-and-drop fields or understand the nuances of user's data’s structure.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 8/1/2021