# Volcano SensorWeb
## NASA-2024-0011
_[National Aeronautics and Space Administration](../3_agency/National Aeronautics and Space Administration.md)_ (NASA) / Jet Propulsion Laboratory


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: AIML Platform/Environment
+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: None
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The Sensor Web Project uses a network of sensors linked by software and the internet to an autonomous satellite observation response capability. This system of systems is designed with a flexible, modular, architecture to facilitate expansion in sensors, customization of trigger conditions, and customization of responses.  This system has been used to implement a global surveillance program to study volcanos. We have also run sensorweb tests to study flooding, cryosphere events, and atmospheric phenomena.  Specifically, in our application, we use low resolution, high coverage sensors to trigger observations by high resolution instruments. Note that there are many other rationales to network sensors into a sensorweb. For example automated response might enable observation using complementary instruments such as imaging radar, infra-red, visible, etc. Or automated response might be used to apply more assets to increase the frequency of observation to improve the temporal resolution of available data.  Our sensorweb project is being used to monitor the Earth's 50 most active volcanos. We have also run sensorweb experiments to monitor flooding, wildfires, and cryospheric events (snowfall and melt, lake freezing and thawing, sea ice formation and breakup.)
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Detection and classification of volcano-related features.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: In production
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 1/1/2003
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 1/1/2003
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 1/1/2003
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with both contracting and in-house resources.
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Identification of the specific public-facing service that the AI use case supports**: None
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Description of how the agency is ensuring that this AI use case is compliant with Information Quality Act guidelines and OMB Memorandum M-19-15, if applicable**: NASA's data stewardship best practices are in effect under guidance from the Chief Data Officer.
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: No
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the rights datasets to begin model development**: Blank/Not Provided
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: Terrestrial and space-based remote sensing satellite images to train the model
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Yes
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: No.  Engineering Review and Resease instead.
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: Deployed on multiple remote sensing spacecraft
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: No
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: This capability has been re-used among many missions
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Yes