# AEGIS: Autonomous Exploration for Gathering Increased Science
## NASA-2024-0003
_[National Aeronautics and Space Administration](../3_agency/National Aeronautics and Space Administration.md)_ (NASA) / Jet Propulsion Laboratory


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Deep Learning
+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: None
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: AEGIS enables intelligent targeting and data acquisition by planetary rovers. It uses computer vision techniques to identify targets (e.g., rocks) in wide angles images of the rover's surrounding terrain. If targets are found that match scientists specificiations, they are then measured autonomously using remote sensing instruments. AEGIS was first used on the MER Mission. It is currently in use on the MSL Mission to acquire data for the ChemCam instrument. It is planned for use in Spring of 2022 on the M2020 Mission to acquire data for the SuperCam instrument.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Recommendations of relevant objects, e.g., Mars rocks, for scientific examination.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: In production
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 1/1/2006
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 1/1/2007
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 1/1/2010
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with both contracting and in-house resources.
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Identification of the specific public-facing service that the AI use case supports**: None
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: No
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: No
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the rights datasets to begin model development**: Blank/Not Provided
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: public Mars science data related to sensors for optimizing scientific measurements
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: No.  Engineering Review and Resease instead.
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: Mars2020 Rover
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: Mars 2020 team built on prior rovers and shared across different facets of Mars 2020.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Yes.  Peer review