# ASPEN Mission Planner
## NASA-2024-0004
_[National Aeronautics and Space Administration](../3_agency/National Aeronautics and Space Administration.md)_ (NASA) / Jet Propulsion Laboratory


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Statistical Methods
+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: None
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Based on AI techniques, ASPEN is a modular, reconfigurable application framework which is capable of supporting a wide variety of planning and scheduling applications. ASPEN provides a set of reusable software components that implement the elements commonly found in complex planning/scheduling systems, including: an expressive modeling language, a resource management system, a temporal reasoning system, and a graphical interface.  ASPEN has been used for many space missions including: Modified Antarctic Mapping Mission, Orbital Express, Earth Observing One, and ESA's Rosetta Orbitter.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Plan and schedule recommendations to optimize Science from Scientific Sensors
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: In mission
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 1/1/1997
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 1/1/1998
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 1/1/2002
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with both contracting and in-house resources.
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Identification of the specific public-facing service that the AI use case supports**: None
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Description of how the agency is ensuring that this AI use case is compliant with Information Quality Act guidelines and OMB Memorandum M-19-15, if applicable**: NASA's data stewardship best practices are in effect under guidance from the Chief Data Officer.
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: No
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the rights datasets to begin model development**: Blank/Not Provided
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: Data related to optimizing sensors and flight hardware.  Note This is a mission-embedded software component subject to system engineering and mission planning reviews, not the IT ATO process.  PII, SAOP, HISP, etc. do not apply.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Yes
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: No.  Engineering Review and Resease instead.
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: Multiple approved space-based systems
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: This capability has been re-used among many missions
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Yes.  Peer review