# Data Access Alternatives: Artificial Intelligence Supported Interfaces
## NSF-2024-0010
_[National Science Foundation](<../3_agency/National Science Foundation.md>)_ (NSF) / SBE/NCSES


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Searching for information using AI.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The key objective of this effort is to create and test machine-learning-backed or “artificial intelligence” (AI)-backed user experiences with federal statistical data. This experience shall improve on the current state of user interactions based on obtaining answers to questions via search engines or emailing federal staff or contractors.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This project seeks to develop and pilot an AI chat bot (or the like) that answers users text queries submitted via an interface. Answers will be obtained from public statistical data of federal statistical agencies in this project.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 7/16/1905
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with both contracting and in-house resources.
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Other
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the rights datasets to begin model development**: Currently we are piloting if this is possible. This chat bot will answer questions. The chat bot will return statistical public data.  Users will always be able to contact the agency via email or phone.
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes