# Budget Area Topic Classification Tool
## NSF-2024-0002
_[National Science Foundation](<../3_agency/National Science Foundation.md>)_ (NSF) / CISE/OAD


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Summarizing the key points of a lengthy report using AI.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The Budget Area Topic Classification Tool uses a pre-trained BERT model ('bert-base-uncased') to classify proposals into 1 of 8 budget areas: Advanced Manufacturing, AI, Advanced Wireless, Clean Energy, Microelectronics & Semiconductors, Quantum, or Trustworthy AI. This approach is semi-supervised in nature as the training data is comprised of pre-tagged CISE proposals from prior years. Upon training the model to learn the multi-label structure of the underlying data, the model's accuracy and discriminatory power was tested using a hold-out sample (i.e. 80/20 split).
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The model outputs a numerical vector of probabilities representing the likelihood that a given proposal belongs to 1 or more categories. A cut-off value can then be set for determining final classification for a given proposal.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither