# ServiceNow GenAI "Now Assist"
## NSF-2024-0001
_[National Science Foundation](<../3_agency/National Science Foundation.md>)_ (NSF) / OCIO


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Collaborating in real-time using AI-assisted tools in word processors.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: ServiceNow GenAI is a FedRAMP High certified system to accelerate digital transformation using Now Assist. Automatically generate content such as responses, work notes, and knowledgebase articles related to customer service experience. Increase productivity and speed to delivery with intelligent recommendations. Resolve issues swiftly with chatbots that understand human language.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Increase productivity and speed to delivery with intelligent recommendations. Resolve issues swiftly with chatbots that understand human language.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither