# USA Class
## OPM-2024-0001
_[Office of Personnel Management](<../3_agency/Office of Personnel Management.md>)_ (OPM) / HRS/HRSES/Federal Classification Center


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The purpose of this project is to build an application to help managers and HR specialists (classifiers) improve the quality and speed the development of position descriptions (PDs). Developing a PD can be a lengthy process that requires significant back-and-forth between managers and classifiers. The length of time required to develop a PD is often cited as a major pain point and bottleneck in federal hiring, workforce planning, organizational design, and performance management processes. To address the challenge today, managers will simply copy whole PDs or significant sections of PDs which weakens the accuracy of the new PD. Agencies have also turned to the use of “standard” PDs which tend to be too generic to be effective for use in recruitment and performance.

This project seeks to solve the “blank-page-syndrome” by suggesting draft major duties, factor evaluation statements, and other elements of the PD for managers and classifiers to use to develop PDs that meet classification standards.

This project is expected to significantly decrease the time required to develop PDs, leading to a decrease in time to hire and other related HR processes. A decrease in the time to hire means agencies can be more competitive in attracting top talent to their organizations, enhancing their ability to meet their missions. A decrease in the time required to develop position descriptions is also expected to lead to cost savings for agencies – freeing up manager and HR specialist time for other tasks. Additionally, the streamlined generation of PDs will enable agencies to move away from “standard” PD processes which will allow for better organizational design and workforce planning outcomes. The project is expected to also lead to higher-quality PDs that adhere to classification standards. This will improve position and performance management and talent acquisition in agencies, ensuring organizations are structured and staffed appropriately to meet their missions.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: USA Class will provide draft PD content generated through large language models (LLMs) and informed by a PD library curated by OPM experts and user responses to prompt questions about the position’s purpose, regular and recurring work, and knowledge required. The questions are intended to be straightforward and easily answered by the manager in a few minutes. The application will then send this information in a prompt to the LLM and generates suggested major duty titles and work tasks. The user (manager or classifier) can edit the draft content suggested by the system and makes the decision whether to include it in the PD or not. Future iterations will include a certification by a classifier and others that they accept/approve the final content of the full PD.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Rights-Impacting
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 3/1/2024
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 3/1/2024
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with both contracting and in-house resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: 24322624F0027
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: The AI system uses a RAG (Retrieval-Augmented-Generation) architecture including GPT-4o (accessed through OPM’s Azure Open AI environment) that leverages manager-provided responses to a few brief questions as well as a library of curated and validated federal position descriptions. The Position Description library consists of approximately 2,800 PDs developed by OPM/HRS’s Federal Classification Center for internal and external customer agencies.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is widely available: Documentation is not only complete, but is widely accessible within the agency, and has an owner and a regular update cadence.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: USAData Analytics
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: Use of existing data platforms: This use case is being developed on existing enterprise data and analytics platforms within the agency rather than procuring additional platforms or SaaS to operate.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Limited documentation for review: Some information regarding the model’s performance on specific benchmarks are available or have been shared with specific stakeholders within the agency.
+ **Whether the agency requested an extension for this AI use case, in response to the CAIO’s request, of up to one year for the minimum requirements outlined in Section 5 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: No – Agency did not request an extension for this use case.
+ **Whether an AI impact assessment for the AI use case has been completed, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(A) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. This assessment should document at least the intended purpose for the AI and its expected benefits, the potential risks of using the AI, and the quality and appropriateness of the relevant data**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case has been tested for performance in a real-world environment to understand its potential impact on individual(s) or communities, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(B) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Benchmark evaluation: Testing of the AI model has involved the use of benchmarks (either publicly available or internally created) to estimate performance in real-world settings, but has not been tested in an operational environment.
+ **Identification of the reasonably foreseeable risks from using the AI use case, to include the risk of inequitable outcomes for individuals. This can be informed by publicly known risks identified in similar use cases or contexts. Examples of such risks include at least physical injury, emotional/psychological injury, opportunity loss, economic loss, privacy loss, environmental impact, or civil rights and civil liberties impact**: We are aware that AI models can perpetuate existing biases present in the training data, leading to unfair or discriminatory classification outcomes. 

It could be a risk to user adoption that Federal managers and HR professionals do not understand how USA Class uses generative AI and whether or not it is safe and effective for them to use.

USA Class could produce incomplete, inaccurate, or inconsistent suggestions due to limitations in training data or other gaps. 

USA Class users could rely too much on the suggested position description content and not review and edit or adjust their prompts enough to get as precise results as are possible leading to overly generic or incomplete PDs.
+ **Whether an independent evaluation of the AI use case has been conducted through the CAIO, an agency AI oversight board, or other appropriate agency office with existing test and evaluation responsibilities, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(C) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. The independent reviewing authority must not have been directly involved in the AI system’s development**: Yes – by an agency AI oversight board not directly involved in the system’s development
+ **Whether there’s an established process for monitoring performance of the AI system’s functionality and changes to its impact on rights and/or safety, including, if relevant, the risk of AI-enabled discrimination, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(D) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: No monitoring protocols have been established: Necessary infrastructure needed to perform monitoring of AI systems in production is not available and/or a plan to monitor models has not yet been established.
+ **Whether the agency has determined that the AI can carry out its individual core decisions or actions that could result in a significant impact on rights and safety without direct human involvement. The answer should not be “yes” if humans are not reviewing individual decisions and are only overseeing or reviewing the performance of the system in general**: No - Some individual decisions or actions require direct human oversight.
+ **How the agency is providing reasonable and timely notice regarding the use of AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(I) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Online - in the terms or instructions for the service.
+ **How the agency has assessed whether there are significant disparities in the AI’s performance across demographic groups, including in the AI’s real-world deployment, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(A) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: No
+ **How the agency has consulted affected groups, including underserved communities, in the design, development, and use of the AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(B) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: These activities are expected as the current prototype matures in the pilot process.
+ **How the agency has consulted affected groups, including underserved communities, in the design, development, and use of the AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(B) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: None of the above
+ **Whether the agency has established a fallback and escalation process, which may include reverting to manual human processes, in the event that an impacted individual would like to appeal or contest an AI system’s outcome, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(E) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has established an opt-out mechanism, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(F) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Yes