# Copilot for Microsoft 365
## OPM-2024-0002
_[Office of Personnel Management](<../3_agency/Office of Personnel Management.md>)_ (OPM) / OCIO/CTO


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Searching for information using AI.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Copilot for Microsoft 365 is an AI-powered addition to the Microsoft 365 suite that helps users be more productive and creative by working with Microsoft 365 apps and services. It uses large language models (LLMs) and integrates with a user's data and Microsoft Graph. Here are some of the ways that Copilot can assist OPM users in Microsoft 365:
•	Summarize 
•	Draft 
•	Analyze data 
•	Create, edit, and share
•	Automate tasks 
•	Suggest ideas 
•	Personalize
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The expected output for Copilot for Microsoft 365 are:
1)	Summarizing emails, meetings, calls, and chats. 
2)	Drafting emails and provide coaching on drafts. 
3)	Analyzing data and identifying insights in Excel. 
 The AI would not make decisions for the users. Instead, it will act as a productivity tool to summarize content and create first drafts for the user to edit. It is the OPM user’s responsibility to validate all content and edit as necessary.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Rights-Impacting