# CodeGen - AI-assisted IT Application Development
## STATE-2024-0014
_[Department of State](../3_agency/Department of State.md)_ (STATE) / CA/CST


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Other; Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Consular Affairs
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: CodeGen is an application designed for seamless integration with Large Language Models (LLMs) that aims to enhance the process that developers follow to build, test, and deploy software. Through use of API, it provides a secure suite of capabilities that fast-tracks developers during code generation, translation, analysis, optimization, and debugging.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Improved outcomes.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 6/9/2023
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 8/22/2023
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with both contracting and in-house resources.
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: Application source code and documentation.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Application source code and documentation.
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: None: This use case does not re-use any internally developed tooling or managed infrastructure from any other AI development efforts within the agency.