# TIP Report Research Translation
## STATE-2024-0031
_Department of State_ (STATE) / J/TIP


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The TIP Report Translation AI system provides informal, unofficial translations for materials related to the annual Trafficking in Persons report.  This capability saves staff time and allows researchers and drafters to focus on critical report needs, such as identifying and resolving data gaps.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Informal, unofficial translations of PDFs and Microsoft word documents. Each document includes a watermark denoting that the AI translation is unofficial. Each document must be verified, reviewed, and edited by a human.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 4/1/2023
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 6/20/2023
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 9/1/2023