# Incident Coordination and Reporting Support
## TREAS-2024-0051
_[Department of the Treasury](../3_agency/Department of the Treasury.md)_ (TREAS) / DF-OCCIP


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Summarizing the key points of a lengthy report using AI.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Reduce development time for products by rapidly summarizing latest information and generating a draft product for human review. Access to a LLM could significantly reduce the time needed for Incident Coordinators to develop (and edit) the first version of incident related products. Inputs from public and potentially non-public sources could quickly be ingested by a model and refined into the products based on desired templates and characterizations. Additionally, if the model uses live data, it could be used for research and gathering updates as the incident progresses. The benefits of having access to a LLM are particularly significant at the outset of an incident when all members of the incident response function are trying to manage multiple inputs from a variety of internal and external sources while attempting to generate products for socialization with key partners.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Quick turn reports based on existing templates for sharing with partners
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/8/2024