# Check Fraud Pipeline
## TREAS-2024-0054
_[Department of the Treasury](../3_agency/Department of the Treasury.md)_ (TREAS) / Bureau of the Fiscal Service


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Searching for information using AI.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Since the dramatic spike in Economic Impact Payments and Advance Child Tax Credit checks, there has been a sharp uptick in U.S. Treasury check fraud.  Specifically, fraudsters have been stealing U.S. Treasury checks and altering the names on the checks. The situation is not typically detected until a payee claimed non-receipt to issuing agency (often long after fraud occurred, also after time limits to recover from FI).  Additionally, Law Enforcement has been challenged in recovering evidence (e.g., ATM footage) to prosecute, as well as identifying organized fraud at the transactional level.  This pilot has enabled the streaming of check images into the payment analytics environment and is leveraging AI/ML to read check image and check settlement data for comparison against check issue data.  To date, 30 million check images and settlement transactions have been analyzed identifying 12K fraudulent altered items worth over $100M
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Risk Score for Potential Fraudulent Checks
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Implementation and Assessment
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither