# Modernization Accelerator - Legacy Applications Chatbot & Code Conversion
## TREAS-2024-0022
_Department of the Treasury_ (TREAS) / Internal Revenue Service


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The IRS Enterprise has many systems that use a legacy coding language, which is much older than typical modern coding languages. This makes it difficult to find skilled and knowledgeable people to maintain or modernize applications. A large language model (LLM) can help speed up this translation so we can more rapidly modernize while retaining the functional objectives of the legacy code. This use case will consist of an iterative multi-phase approach to help accelerate the modernization of sample legacy code by building a Generative AI (GenAI) Sandbox environment that will allow us to ingest a subset of IRS legacy documentation to build a LLM GenAI chatbot. This will accelerate knowledge discovery for future legacy modernization initiatives. In addition, we will leverage GenAI to ingest a subset of IRS Assembler Language Code (ALC) legacy code to evaluate, validate, and optimize GenAI capabilities to not only transform legacy code into English readable pseudocode, and convert it into a modern language. This initial use case will be limited to IRS use only within a sandbox environment and not intended for production.

Existing Code to Java
LLM within IRS boundary
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The AI accelerator outputs a document that describes the functionality of the ALC code ingested; identifying loops and conditions as well as key architectural and functional diagrams that can assist a developer understanding complex legacy code.
The Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) Chatbot will generate responses grounded in the files that are ingested, including confidence scores, to aide business analysis efforts
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Implementation and Assessment
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/1/2023
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 3/15/2024
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 10/31/2024
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: TIRNO-17-D-00004 WR2730
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: No
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: No
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: No models are being trained. Outputs are being calibrated through prompt engineering. The inputs will be supporting documentation available to the public in PDF format, as well as a subset of ALC code (.ASM files) approved for ingestion. No Personally Identifiable Information (PII) data will be used. Any additional inputs used will go through appropriate review process.

ASM code is a shorthand for machine language. Each ASM language is designed for a specific computer architecture, and sometimes an operating system.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is widely available: Documentation is not only complete, but is widely accessible within the agency, and has an owner and a regular update cadence.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: None
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: No – agency does not have access to source code.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: No
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Other
+ **Explanation for whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Infrastructure is provided through innovation lab managed service.
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: None: This use case does not re-use any internally developed tooling or managed infrastructure from any other AI development efforts within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Limited documentation for review: Some information regarding the model’s performance on specific benchmarks are available or have been shared with specific stakeholders within the agency.