# Intelligent Document Management System (IDMS)
## TREAS-2024-0035
_[Department of the Treasury](../3_agency/Department of the Treasury.md)_ (TREAS) / Internal Revenue Service


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Searching for information using AI.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: IDMS is a vendor managed cloud platform solution which will provide an enterprise capability to process, store, retrieve, manage, and share a variety of documents.  Utilizing a Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) model, this robust cloud-hosted platform will improve the overall document management user experience, utilizing artificial intelligence and machine learning to automate extraction, processing, and analyzing of critical data from multiple structured and unstructured formats.  In this way, IDMS will minimize the need for manual document processing, scaling to rapidly process large volumes of data accurately, reducing data processing costs and swiftly delivering responses with detailed and relevant information.  This allows the customer to review the AI output to enhance their decision-making process.  The initial customer is the Office of Chief Counsel. IDMS will integrate with existing and future critical business platforms to provide a seamless end-to-end user experience.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Output of the model is usually a JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) text payload resulting from the Inference Application Programming Interface (API) calls with unique id referencing the document source
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Rights-Impacting