# Data Integration using Informatica Data Management Cloud
## TREAS-2024-0029
_[Department of the Treasury](<../3_agency/Department of the Treasury.md>)_ (TREAS) / Internal Revenue Service


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Informatica Intelligent Cloud Services Overview 

Informatica Intelligent Cloud Services (IICS) is a cloud-native data integration and management platform that enables organizations to connect, access, transform, and govern data across hybrid and multi-cloud environments. IICS leverages artificial intelligence and machine learning to automate and optimize data processes, enhance data quality, and accelerate data insights. IICS offers a range of services and features, such as: 

Data Integration: A service that enables users to design, develop, and deploy data integration workflows and tasks across cloud and on-premises sources and targets, using a graphical user interface or a code-based environment. Data Integration supports various data integration patterns, such as batch, real-time, streaming, and change data capture. 

The solution enables Integrated Production Model (IPM) to load data directly to the cloud from on-premises sources.  Without the solution, there's no native support to load data to Databricks, causing extra work and less-than-optimal solutions to maintain and develop.  Any custom needed IPM data is impacted by this solution.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The Informatica Artificial Intelligence (AI), named Claire, can make the following types of recommendations during mapping design:
- Recommend transformation types to include in the mapping.
- Recommend additional sources based on primary key and foreign key relationships.
- Recommend joining or unioning additional sources.
- Make recommendations for objects in a mapping inventory.
- Recommend mapplets or user-defined functions.
- Make recommendations to standardize your data
- Make recommendations to mask sensitive data.
- Recommend rule specifications.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 4/1/2024
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 11/1/2023
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: 2032H5-21-F-00059 / NNG15SD22B
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: The source information comes from the Informatica mapping development work.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is widely available: Documentation is not only complete, but is widely accessible within the agency, and has an owner and a regular update cadence.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: None
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: No
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: More than 12 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: Re-use production level code and/or data products: This use case re-uses production level code as well as data products that have been published or made widely available for data science teams for within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Documentation has been published: Complete documentation has been published to a repository or data catalog within the agency and is made accessible to other data science teams for review and feedback.