# DATA Act Bot for Procurement Data Matching
## TREAS-2024-0008
_Department of the Treasury_ (TREAS) / Internal Revenue Service


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Purpose:  The Digital Accountability and Transparency Act (DATA) Act Bot automates verifying that IRS Federal Procurement Data System (FPDS) reporting matches the information in contract documents (e.g. dollar amounts, dates, location of work). Supervised learning and natural language processing are used to extract unstructured information from contract documents. F1 accuracy scores are used to measure performance of validation models for each specific data element.

Benefits: The AI improves operational efficiency by validating consistency and accuracy of contract metadata.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: AI model validates that contract spending information reported to USASpending.gov matches contract documents. The system validates the consistency of contract metadata such as contract number, modification number, dollar amounts, contract work / place of performance location address, and contract dates.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 9/26/2019
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 9/26/2019
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 3/31/2022
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: 2032H822F00222
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: No
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: IRS contract documents were used to train the model. Project team members manually annotated or created labeled data. Created dataset of information extracted from contract documents (e.g. dates, dollar amounts, addresses). This dataset is used to improve the accuracy and reliability of contract spending reporting.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is widely available: Documentation is not only complete, but is widely accessible within the agency, and has an owner and a regular update cadence.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: None
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: Yes – agency has access to source code, but it is not public.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: Integrated Financial System / Procurement for the Public Sector
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: More than 12 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Other
+ **Explanation for whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: AI component is a contractor managed service application accessed using bot running on agency infrastructure.
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: No
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: Use of existing data platforms: This use case is being developed on existing enterprise data and analytics platforms within the agency rather than procuring additional platforms or SaaS to operate.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Documentation has been published: Complete documentation has been published to a repository or data catalog within the agency and is made accessible to other data science teams for review and feedback.