# Exercise Design
## TREAS-2024-0050
_[Department of the Treasury](<../3_agency/Department of the Treasury.md>)_ (TREAS) / DF-OCCIP


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Summarizing the key points of a lengthy report using AI.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Expedite the exercise development process through more rapid event design and scenario creation as well as streamline post-event reporting. Access to a Large Language Model (LLM) can significantly enhance an exercise program primarily in two ways. First, by improving the development of scenarios and second, post-event analysis. For scenario development, an LLM can quickly generate realistic and complex scenarios tailored to specific objectives and characteristics. For example, in a cybersecurity exercise, the LLM can create detailed narratives involving various types of cyber incidents, such as ransomware attacks, data breaches, and phishing schemes. It can simulate the actions of adversaries, the impact on IT infrastructure, and the necessary response measures. This variety ensures participants are exposed to a wide range of potential cyber threats, enhancing their preparedness and response capabilities.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Detailed event descriptions, scenario information, and/or reporting and analysis.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/8/2024