# Generative AI Toolbox for Contract Document Assistance
## TREAS-2024-0020
_Department of the Treasury_ (TREAS) / Internal Revenue Service


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Summarizing the key points of a lengthy report using AI.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Exploring / planning potential use of generative AI to assist with contract document tasks such as:
- Assisting with drafting contract statements of work.
- Reviewing contracts and supporting documents for completeness, consistency, and policy compliance.
- Reducing barriers for small businesses / new entrants to bid on Treasury contracts by offering AI powered proposal writing assistance.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The AI system generates accurate, contextually relevant, and human readable text outputs based on user input queries and uploaded documents. Its outputs include: Document Summaries., Draft Responses, Content Rewrite, Question-Answer Pairs, Data Extraction, Analysis and Recommendations.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Rights-Impacting