# Integrate Google Doc AI for Digitalization
## TREAS-2024-0021
_[Department of the Treasury](../3_agency/Department of the Treasury.md)_ (TREAS) / Internal Revenue Service


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: This Digital Enablement Platform (DEP) implementation has the goal to increase access to high quality data extraction, reduce reliance on paper and manually intensive processes utilizing artificial intelligence. Therefore, eliminating the need for transcription and manual data corrections by the Business.
DEP Artificial Intelligence (AI) will include updates to the existing business unit processes to leverage the UiPath Robotic Process Automation (RPA) platform. The UiPath RPA platform will also integrate with Google Document AI to implement a new extraction engine that will work in conjunction with and in support of the DEP.
The UiPath Automation Suite software for RPA platform in the Integrated Enterprise Portal (IEP) Amazon Web Services (AWS) provides support for multiple optical character recognition (OCRs), included the native UiPath OCR engine for intelligent document processing. Eliminating the need for transcription and manual data corrections by the Business.
Humans in the loop will validate AI OCR classification and extraction within the UiPath Action Center. Any extraction confidence levels that fail both UiPath and Google DocAI confidence level requirements necessitate human verification as well as 10 percent of all documents that are processed through the DEP AI system.
The benefit of the DEP AI system revolves around the of transition to being a modern, digitally capable, customer-centric agency. It will ensure taxpayers file accurate returns as well as allowing for the IRS to identify inconsistencies and streaming correspondence. 
The DEP AI aims to enhance efficiency by transitioning to end-to-end digital processes, eliminating paper backlogs, and improving accuracy in translating return data. These digital tools will be accessible to individuals with disabilities and offered in taxpayers’ preferred languages. Additionally, this commitment to digitalization reduces the environmental impact by minimizing paper usage and storage. Overall, the decision benefits taxpayers, improves operations, and contributes to environmental conservation efforts.
IRS business units tied to paper-driven processes as well as U.S. taxpayers.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The output is a metadata file that contains the data that has been extracted from the images we have scanned.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Implementation and Assessment
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 11/20/2023
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 11/20/2023
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 6/30/2024
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: TIRNO-17-D-00004 WR2730
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: No
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: We have used CP2000 letter responses, Form 709 tax data, Form 94X tax data, SCOIC (offer in compromise) data.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is widely available: Documentation is not only complete, but is widely accessible within the agency, and has an owner and a regular update cadence.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: None
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: Yes – agency has access to source code, but it is not public.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: Digital Enablement Platform
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: Use of existing data platforms: This use case is being developed on existing enterprise data and analytics platforms within the agency rather than procuring additional platforms or SaaS to operate.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Documentation has been developed: Complete documentation detailing model performance across a range of benchmarks, architecture, relevant features and information regarding the appropriate use of the model for predictive tasks has been created.