# Technical Demo of Large Language Models for Code Development
## TREAS-2024-0025
_[Department of the Treasury](<../3_agency/Department of the Treasury.md>)_ (TREAS) / Internal Revenue Service


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Problem: IRS developers spend significant time developing code and unit tests. IRS developers do not currently benefit from AI-assisted code development, which can greatly improve the accuracy and efficiency of development work. 

Use Case: Using llamafile and collama IDE plugins within VS Code, developers will be able to utilize code completion and suggestion, code generation, code refactoring, code documentation, debugging and unit testing capabilities to optimize the developer experience and produce high-integrity code solutions.

Why now? Developers need some interim solution to leverage Generative AI (GenAI) capability while the long-term Enterprise Solution is being developed.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Text Generation, Summarization, Code Completion, Unit Tests, Text Translation, Text-to-Text Transformation.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 5/12/2024