# Simulation of the Nation (SimoN) Synthetic Data Engine
## TREAS-2024-0011
_[Department of the Treasury](../3_agency/Department of the Treasury.md)_ (TREAS) / Internal Revenue Service


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Enterprise Services (ES), Enterprise Systems Testing (EST) is the testing authority for Information Technology (IT) and provides enterprise-wide testing solutions and critical support across the enterprise for numerous systems and applications.  

The Synthetic Data Engine, or Simulation of the Nation (SimoN) is designed to generate volumes of synthetic tax data to represent a wide range of use cases, without copying Federal Tax Information (FTI) from production systems is an IRS directive.  SimoN is also able to age data to support multi-year tax code concerns for more comprehensive testing sequences spanning multiple tax years. This will improve the volume, diversity and quality of test data being created and processed in a systemic manner. To date, SimoN has produced over 700,000 unique and valid Individual Master File (IMF) tax returns, and over 50,000 unique and valid Business Master File (BMF) returns for testing. SimoN also supports Social Security Administration (SSA) interconnects and SS4 interconnects which allow the data produced to be fully linked between business and individuals. Over 320 dimensions of socioeconomic data are synthesized and validated against United States (U.S.) Census metrics to ensure a validated and realistic synthetic dataset. 

The SimoN solution consumes publicly available statistical data about businesses and the population of the U.S. This includes tax household composition, income and education levels and other data points. The solution combines statistical data with Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) to generate businesses and simulated households with a variety of tax scenarios. The solution then stores the business and population data in a database.  The data is extracted to files for submission to the test environment systems simulating eFile and SSA feeds with no review of data created.

At no point, is Production data (i.e., Personally Identifiable Information (PII), Federal Taxpayer Information (FTI) or Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI) used as input to the Artificial Intelligence/Machine Language (AI/ML) process of SimoN, nor does the simulated output data feed Production systems. In addition to generating synthetic data, this system is designed to simulate the aging of the population. The aging model includes a variety of socioeconomic events, such as births, deaths, marriages, job changes and address changes. SimoN also has multiple levels of automated testing and data validations to ensure the data produced is usable by IRS test systems and simulates businesses and population.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: SimoN is capable of outputting 3 tax years of IMF and BMF returns starting in Tax Year 2022. With each XML Schema Definition (XSD) that is released under the Modernized e-File (MeF), SimoN implements each XSD version and provides full regression support for testing in successive years. Each XSD version has automated tests that run to ensure verifications can be run to reduce the likelihood of AI generated synthetic returns that might have data anomalies. 

Also, to help seed test systems with synthetic individuals and synthetic businesses, SimoN can output the Data Master 1 (DM1) file simulating a feed from Social Security Administration (SSA) and Application for Employer Identification Number file (Form SS-4) containing transcribed form information so that the test system can be initialized with the appropriate backend reference data for validation of IMF and BMF entities, as well as the ability to validate incoming synthetic tax returns.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 4/4/2021
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 10/1/2021
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 1/31/2024
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: 2032H5-22-C-00097
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: No
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: No
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: None, all data used for unsupervised model training is based on public data sets from the Census Bureau.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is complete: Documentation exists regarding the maintenance, composition, quality, and intended use of the training and evaluation data, as well as any statistical bias across model features and protected groups.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: Marital Status, Residency Status, Employment Status, Income, Other, Sex/Gender, Age, Socioeconomic Status, Ability Status
+ **Identification of the other demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: SimoN leverages over 100 different census attributes for model training in order to generate a synthetic population.
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: Yes – agency has access to source code, but it is not public.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: No
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: 6-12 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: No
+ **Has the communication been timely**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: None: This use case does not re-use any internally developed tooling or managed infrastructure from any other AI development efforts within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Limited documentation for review: Some information regarding the model’s performance on specific benchmarks are available or have been shared with specific stakeholders within the agency.