# Auto Tech Debt Remedy (Individual Master File Modernization)
## TREAS-2024-0044
_[Department of the Treasury](<../3_agency/Department of the Treasury.md>)_ (TREAS) / Internal Revenue Service


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Purpose/Objective: The purpose of this Artificial Intelligence (AI) project is to utilize industry-standard scanning tools and generative AI capabilities to automate the resolution of technical debt in source code.
How It Accomplishes Its Purpose: The project identifies technical debt using industry-standard scanning tools such as SonarQube. The output from these tools is then fed into a large language model, which generates the modified, resolved code. This code is integrated into an automated pipeline to streamline the entire process.
Decision or Judgment Automated: The model automates the writing of code to resolve and remediate technical debt.
Human Review Process: Yes, humans are involved in reviewing the AI output prior to taking action. Specifically, a pull request (PR) is created in GitHub through this tool, and no code is pushed without human review.
Anticipated Benefits: The primary benefit anticipated from this project is the reduction of technical debt.
Direct or Ultimate Impact: The direct impact is reduced technical debt, leading to more maintainable and efficient codebases.
Population Impacted: The immediate population impacted by this decision includes software developers. In the long run, end users will also benefit as the software will be maintained more easily and efficiently.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Large Language Model (LLM) recommendations for code remediations identified from application scanning tools.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/21/2024