# Breakthrough RESEARCH’s Social Media Listening
## USAID-2024-0006
_[United States Agency for International Development](<../3_agency/United States Agency for International Development.md>)_ (USAID) / USAID/Bureau for Global Health (GH)


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Diplomacy & Trade
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Social media listening draws on machine learning to synthesize and organize the vast quantities of data shared over social media platforms. Breakthrough RESEARCH carried out social listening on 12,301 social media posts in Nigeria to explore how gender-related online conversations manifest themselves and whether they have changed in the last five years. Using Crimson Hexagon’s machine learning algorithm, “Brightview,” publicly available social media content originating in the countries of interest was scraped by the algorithm, for posts relevant to RH/FP and youth. The resulting social media posts were then classified by topic, using language detected in the content. This provided a dataset categorizing conversations into overarching topics, allowing analyses to uncover key trends in topic specific conversation volume, insights about misinformation, attitudes and social norms, and more. The machine learning algorithm was able to identify relevant social media content. The 12,301 social media posts were qualitatively assessed and categorized, allowing researchers to monitor and track social media conversations far more expansively than allowed by research methods more traditionally used in public health and SBC programs.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Reports, visualizations
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 7/14/1905
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 7/14/1905
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 7/14/1905
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: 7/15/1905