# Covid Decision Support
## USAID-2024-0022
_United States Agency for International Development_ (USAID) / USAID/India


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Health & Medical
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: USAID-supported TRACE TB led by Wadhwani Institute for Artificial Intelligence supported the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM) with eight forecasts commissioned during June 2020 to January 2021. These predictive modelling and analytics forecasts, and recommendations supported the MCGM public health authorities and led to an additional over 2,500 ICU beds and over 50,000 quarantine beds months in advance of the second COVID-19 wave. Based on insights from data analysis the forecast suggested to increase case discovery by ~25% in under-tested wards. Similar support was provided to Jharkhand (six districts) from September 2020 - January 2021 with three forecasts and data analytics. The model received appreciation letters from the State Government of Jharkhand and Maharashtra.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Time series predictions
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Both
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: 7/14/1905