# GenDev Key Issue Narrative Generation
## USAID-2024-0098
_[United States Agency for International Development](<../3_agency/United States Agency for International Development.md>)_ (USAID) / USAID/Bureau for Management


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: A series of AI use cases focused on processing, validating, and summarizing PPR narratives from Facts Info, particularly related to USAID's Gender Development (GenDev) sector. The use cases include:

(1) Parsing Narratives by Implementing Mechanism (IM): Extract IM names and corresponding numbers from PPR narratives, and cross-reference them with data reported on operational plan attributions for each IM and Key Issue pulled from the Key Issue Attributions Report on Facts Info.

(2) Reviewing and Validating Narratives: Review the PPR narratives against predefined criteria to ensure they meet reporting requirements. This involves flagging whether certain criteria are present, such as correct reporting of IM numbers, description of interventions, and key results.

(3) Synthesizing Narrative Review Notes: Synthesize review notes generated by Data Services after the previous use case into concise summaries that are under 500 characters for easy integration into official reports.

(4) Keyword-Based Summarization: Combine narratives flagged with similar keywords into harmonized summaries, creating comprehensive narratives on specific themes or issues.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: (1) List of extracted IM names and numbers
(2) List of binary values for criteria compliance fields
(3) Summary of narrative review notes.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 4/17/2024
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: 72MC1024M00002