# ARTS - Automated Indirect Cost and Tracking System
## USAID-2024-0074
_[United States Agency for International Development](<../3_agency/United States Agency for International Development.md>)_ (USAID) / USAID/Bureau for Management


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: 1. Increased Efficiency and Productivity
24/7 Availability: Chatbots can operate continuously, providing support to IPs outside traditional business hours with troubleshooting, FAQs, and routine requests.
Rapid Responses: Chatbots can process and respond to IP inquiries immediately providing improved support to IPs around the globe
Automation of Repetitive Tasks: AI can handle routine questions, document creation, and workflows, freeing up valuable time for CAS and IP personnel.
2. Enhanced User Experience/Time Savings. Generative AI can tailor trend analysis for indirect rates improving engagement with IPs and reduce the time needed to issue negotiated indirect cost rate agreements.
3. Improved Decision-Making. The CAS Division will use AI to receive data-driven Insights. AI can summarize large datasets of indirect cost rate information to extract insights. Generative AI will synthesize information from the IPs helping negotiators to make informed decisions regarding indirect rate negotiations. AI models for indirect cost rates can predict outcomes and forecast rates based on data provided by USAID IPs.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Chatbot, Generative AI for trend analysis reports, Indirect Cost Rate Predictions
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/1/2023
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: 47QTCA20D005E / Order # 72MC1023M00003), USAID CIO Enterprise Customer Relationship Management (ECRM) contract