# BA Cote d'Ivoire Public Social Media Data
## USAID-2024-0016
_United States Agency for International Development_ (USAID) / USAID/Bureau for Global Health (GH)


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Diplomacy & Trade
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: For Breakthrough ACTION Côte d’Ivoire, we use a software called Meltwater (www.meltwater.com) to extract and organize public social media data from Facebook, Twitter, web-based news, blogs, and similar sources. Meltwater has web crawlers that extract data in real-time (every 2-6 minutes). They have full firehose access to Twitter and Reddit and access to Facebook and other social sources in line with the API restrictions of those companies. We also have a CrowdTangle (www.crowdtangle.com) account, which is Facebook’s (Meta’s) tool for researchers and for social good. Finally, we have a custom Python application which pulls public posts from the Facebook API (through CrowdTangle) and uses machine learning to optimize “topics” from the text data (i.e. groups of terms that reflect certain subjects of discussion on Facebook). In all these cases, artificial intelligence takes the form of natural language processing and image recognition, for example, sentiment analysis and identifying key terms and topics from unstructured data.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Reports, visualizations
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Retired
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement**: 3/1/2023