# BHA/DDAIM: Decision Support via CHOPP
## USAID-2024-0097
_United States Agency for International Development_ (USAID) / USAID/Bureau for Management


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: (1)  Implement "Ask CHOPP" Feature: Introduce on-demand Gen AI insights with narrative and graphic outputs.
(2) Enhance Emergency Application Processing: Improve processes per PLRP requirements to ensure applications meet USAID/BHA guidelines, include all required annexes, and propose activities aligned with humanitarian needs and standards.
(3) Improve BHA Situational Awareness: Analyze needs and programming trends over time through enhanced proposal processing.
(4) Enrich Contextual Awareness: Blend BHA application needs data with other data sources for a richer understanding of humanitarian contexts.
(5) Generate Comprehensive Reports: Produce situation reports and narrative summaries from structured and unstructured data for internal and external reporting, briefings, and historical analyses.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: (1) Responses to user inquiries in "Ask CHOPP" chat agent
(2) Required component inventories and guidance compliance scores.
(3) Historical trend analyses for programming trends
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 9/13/2024
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: 72MC1024M00002