# ARS Project Mapping
## USDA-2024-0002
_[Department of Agriculture](<../3_agency/Department of Agriculture.md>)_ (USDA) / ARS: Agricultural Research Service


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Science & Space
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The intended purpose of this model is to process research plans from various research program portfolios in the Agricultural Research Service (ARS) to find patterns and opportunities between projects. The expected benefits include decreasing the time that humans would spend to manually read, pull out key terms, and group the projects by topic. The model may also find patterns that a human might miss.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The model outputs groups of similar projects and project terms. The output includes metrics (silhouette scores, term rank, importance scores) that show how well the projects and terms in a group match.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 1/1/2020
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 1/1/2021
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 5/1/2022
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: 1232SA21F0067
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: No
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: The data is a collection of project plans written by scientists, roughly 600 text documents. The texts are related to publicly available 5-year action plans.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation has been partially completed: Some documentation exists (detailing the composition and any statistical bias or measurement skew for training and evaluation purposes), but documentation took place within this use case’s development.
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: Yes – agency has access to source code, but it is not public.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: Enterprise Data Analytics Platform & Toolset (EDAPT)
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: No
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: None: This use case does not re-use any internally developed tooling or managed infrastructure from any other AI development efforts within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Limited documentation for review: Some information regarding the model’s performance on specific benchmarks are available or have been shared with specific stakeholders within the agency.
+ **Whether the agency requested an extension for this AI use case, in response to the CAIO’s request, of up to one year for the minimum requirements outlined in Section 5 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: No – Agency did not request an extension for this use case.