# Digital Imagery (no-change) for NRI Program
## USDA-2024-0034
_Department of Agriculture_ (USDA) / NRCS: Natural Resources Conservation Service


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: AI algorithms are used to look at landscape images and detect if the landscape has changed from year to year. Currently, about 72000 aerial images are interpreted by dozens of technicians each year to collect data for the National Resources Inventory (NRI) program. This case would decrease the number of labor hours required of technicians to manually interpret images.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The model outputs a classification of “no-changes” in the images if the landscape in the images remain stable from year to year.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/1/2022
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency requested an extension for this AI use case, in response to the CAIO’s request, of up to one year for the minimum requirements outlined in Section 5 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: No – Agency did not request an extension for this use case.