# XtractOne
## VA-2024-0065
_[Department of Veterans Affairs](../3_agency/Department of Veterans Affairs.md)_ (VA) / VHA: Veterans Health Administration


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Law & Justice
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The new WDS will allow the VA Police to centralize all the facilities WDS reporting to one place allowing the VA to use manpower properly, allow them to also have better eyes on the WDS, and also allow them to have Enterprise solutions to allow upper management to see what is going on through the SaaS solution. This solution will also allow the VA Police to send out reports or alerts to Upper management and VA Police so they can mobilize and report to where the issues are quicker, efficiently, and effectively. This will also allow the VA Police to lock down facilities easier than before where that was not possible without going to said doors and locking them physically. The WDS can do that for the VA Police now.

The key benefits are having a fully modernized weapons detection system to help the VA Police better detect unauthorized weapons entering and exiting the VA Facilities allowing the VA Police to do their job more efficiently and effectively. This will also all the VA Police to use their manpower in proper means instead of wasting man hours and money.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Xtract One View is equipped with advanced analytical tools that process vast amounts of data to detect unusual patterns and potential threats before they escalate. Using machine learning algorithms, it continuously improves its concealed weapons detection capabilities, adapting to new types of risks and optimizing security protocols accordingly.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Both
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 9/23/2024
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: Contract has not been awarded yet.
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: No
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is missing or not available: No documentation exists regarding maintenance, composition, quality, or intended use of the training and evaluation data.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: ["Other"]
+ **Identification of the other demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: Unknown
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: No – agency does not have access to source code.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: No
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: No
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: No
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: None: This use case does not re-use any internally developed tooling or managed infrastructure from any other AI development efforts within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Documentation has been developed: Complete documentation detailing model performance across a range of benchmarks, architecture, relevant features and information regarding the appropriate use of the model for predictive tasks has been created.
+ **Whether the agency requested an extension for this AI use case, in response to the CAIO’s request, of up to one year for the minimum requirements outlined in Section 5 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Yes – Agency requested an extension for this use case.