# Caller intent classification using Google Dialogflow (VoiceBot)
## VA-2024-0080
_[Department of Veterans Affairs](../3_agency/Department of Veterans Affairs.md)_ (VA) / OIT: Office of Information & Technology


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Searching for information using AI.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: This project is part of the Unified Communications goal of modernizing call centers. AI (as NLU/NLP) can expedite triage, improve caller-to-agent matching, and handle routine tasks (through APIs) without agent support.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Mainly conversational output. The VoiceBot will act as a caller-concierge, helping Veterans locate the right agent and/or solve tasks (e.g., claims status checks). Conversational scripts, including intents, entities and slots will be stored in CXI and/or other databases (e.g., Clarabridge) standard to VA call centers today.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Safety-impacting
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 7/1/2022
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 12/1/2022