# Podimetrics
## VA-2024-0067
_[Department of Veterans Affairs](<../3_agency/Department of Veterans Affairs.md>)_ (VA) / VHA: Veterans Health Administration


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Health & Medical
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Our involvement with Podimetrics is limited to receiving and processing escalation reports generated by their SmartMat system. Podimetrics’ platform uses its proprietary technology, to generate these reports. However, our role does not involve developing, deploying, or controlling  AI systems. Instead, we serve as a conduit, ensuring that these escalation reports are shared with the appropriate clinicians to facilitate timely and informed care for Veterans.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Our interaction with the Podimetrics platform is strictly limited to data transfer and integration of the generated reports. We do not engage with their proprietary technology, or decision-making processes inherent in the Podimetrics platform. Our role is supportive and integration-focused, solely aimed at ensuring seamless communication and clinical follow-up based on the provided reports.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Both
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 12/1/2019
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 12/1/2019
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 12/1/2019
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: No
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: No
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation has been partially completed: Some documentation exists (detailing the composition and any statistical bias or measurement skew for training and evaluation purposes), but documentation took place within this use case’s development.
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: No
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: No – agency does not have access to source code.
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Other
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Other
+ **Whether the agency requested an extension for this AI use case, in response to the CAIO’s request, of up to one year for the minimum requirements outlined in Section 5 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Yes – Agency requested an extension for this use case.