# Parable 3D Wound Care Management System
## VA-2024-0017
_Department of Veterans Affairs_ (VA) / VHA: Veterans Health Administration


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Health & Medical
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Creating visual representations of data sets for reports and presentations using AI.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Traditional wound care methods call for hand measurements to be taken of the patients wound, increasing imprecision that comes with manual measurements, along with the increased contact with the wound and potential for infection. Parable 3D Wound Care Management System aims to automate the process of wound care by using traditional computer vision based volumetric measurements to capture images of the wound and create 3D polygon mesh representation of said wound. The main benefit of the system is the automated, contactless measurements that will reduce vectors for infection and alleviate the difficulty, imprecision, and variability of manual measurements. This allows the clinicians to spend more time on patient care, analyzing wounds, and encourage proper healing for the patient.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: 2D and 3D volumetric measurements are computed based on the segmented 3D reconstruction to produce length, width, surface area, depth, and volume measurements.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Both
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: Parable ID: 665
+ **Whether the agency requested an extension for this AI use case, in response to the CAIO’s request, of up to one year for the minimum requirements outlined in Section 5 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Yes – Agency requested an extension for this use case.