# Policy AId
## VA-2024-0131
_[Department of Veterans Affairs](../3_agency/Department of Veterans Affairs.md)_ (VA) / VHA: Veterans Health Administration


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Searching for information using AI.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Policy lookup is a time-consuming task in the VA. This challenge was identified as an ideal candidate for generative AI product development. After completing AI engineering and product development training, our internal team developed a Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) application that accepts policy-related questions and provides relevant answers based on Medical Center reference materials. 

Expected Benefits:
Time spent on finding/referencing facility policy decreases, increasing efficiency and employee satisfaction. 
Standardization of meeting minutes per Dayton governance structure.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: LLM produces feedback in text with links to the associated medical center publications.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Implementation and Assessment
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither