# Nursing Proficiency Coach & Nurse Proficiency Evaluator...and beyond!
## VA-2024-0016
_Department of Veterans Affairs_ (VA) / VHA: Veterans Health Administration


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Education & Workforce
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Two custom GPTs have been created: Nurse Proficiency Writer and Nursing Proficiency Coach.  A GS version is in development.  The Nurse GPTs are used to compare the nurse's self-input against 600+ functional statements and standards (externally accessible or approved by the Office of Nursing Service).  It evaluates the nurse's performance against the standards, reports on positive findings, identifies weak areas, provides an estimated rating, and grade assessment.  The interactive GPT allows nurses to have a dialog to better understand how their practice can be improved.   Many of our 90,000+ RNs are not proficient in understanding the standards nor adept in writing performance reports. This leads to end-user frustration, quality issues with content, submission gaps compared to the standard, interrater reliability variances, and a host of other challenges with the our current process. The tool aids the nurses in developing the content for their ePerformance submission.  No PHI is allowed in nursing proficiencies (by standard), and PHII is scrubbed prior to submission by the nurse.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The output takes the nurse's input and returns a summary of each practice dimension and positive accomplishments offering suggestions where the nurse can improve.  The tool can help the nurse in generating a written summary for ePerformance submission.  This is a tremendous time saver and improves the quality of their submission.  Most importantly, the Custom GPT does not impact the staff rating.  It is a tool is designed to help the nurse.  The nurse is ultimately responsible for the content and final submission (data accuracy and validity), and the proficiency evaluations are the responsibility of the Supervisor with knowledge regarding the staffs performance.  The improvment in content can greatly assist the Supervisor in their evaluation process (win-win).
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Implementation and Assessment
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 8/20/2024
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 8/27/2024
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 10/5/2024
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed in-house.
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: No
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: No
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: Nursing Functional Statements
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is missing or not available: No documentation exists regarding maintenance, composition, quality, or intended use of the training and evaluation data.
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: No – agency does not have access to source code.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: No
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: Custom ChatGPT paid for by owner, external to VA.
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: No
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: No
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Other
+ **Explanation for whether communication regarding the provisioning of requested resources for the AI use case has been timely**: N/A, externally developed Custom ChatGPT paid for by the employee for nurse use.
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: None: This use case does not re-use any internally developed tooling or managed infrastructure from any other AI development efforts within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: No documentation is available: No documentation detailing model performance metrics, model architecture, features and intended use of the models have been created or are currently accessible to other data science teams within the agency.