# Activity recognition using wearable sensors for use in closed loop deep brain stimulation systems
## VA-2024-0038
_Department of Veterans Affairs_ (VA) / VHA: Veterans Health Administration


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Health & Medical
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: To accurately recognize/classify a number of different activities of daily living (walking, standing, sitting, lying down, etc.) using accelerometry/gyroscopic data. This could be used in a number of different applications.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Described above. A classifier that outputs a recognized behavior in real-time based on changes in accelerometry/gyroscopic data.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Safety-impacting
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 8/1/2019
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 12/16/2019
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with both contracting and in-house resources.
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: Yes
+ **Identification of the High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) that the AI use case supports**: Veterans Health Administration
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: Yes
+ **Description of how the agency is ensuring that this AI use case is compliant with Information Quality Act guidelines and OMB Memorandum M-19-15, if applicable**: Data privacy and confidentiality are ensured using standard techniques such as using a unique identifier for each research participant while keeping PHI in a separate spreadsheet kept on a VA-secured research server. For transparency, the underlying de-identified data will be uploaded to an online repository, the NIH AgingBioBank data repository. The code used for the AI use case is uploaded on Github.
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: No
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: researcher-acquired accelerometer/gyroscope data
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation has been partially completed: Some documentation exists (detailing the composition and any statistical bias or measurement skew for training and evaluation purposes), but documentation took place within this use case’s development.
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: Yes – source code is publicly available.
+ **Link to publicly available source code for the AI use case, if available, in alignment with OMB Memorandum M-24-10’s section on sharing**: https://github.com/alino93/HARDataset_LSTM
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: No
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: No
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: No
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Other
+ **Explanation for whether communication regarding the provisioning of requested resources for the AI use case has been timely**: we have mostly used University resources for this, not VA. VA participants have been included in the data acquisition process, but no real VA resources have been used in model development.
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: None: This use case does not re-use any internally developed tooling or managed infrastructure from any other AI development efforts within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Limited documentation for review: Some information regarding the model’s performance on specific benchmarks are available or have been shared with specific stakeholders within the agency.