# VEO Virtual Analyst Proof of Concept
## VA-2024-0018
_[Department of Veterans Affairs](<../3_agency/Department of Veterans Affairs.md>)_ (VA) / OIT: Office of Information & Technology


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Searching for information using AI.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The AIDV Dev/Test environment will provide a proof of concept to provide generative AI capabilities in CX Insights and SDP. This will show capability to allow users to intuitively and easily work with dummy data and provide a sandbox to develop generative AI tools. The development of Virtual Analyst tool will provide value to the veteran by using generative AI to predict and improve services to the veteran.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Outputs will include data-informed English-language responses to English-language questions asked about VEO machine learning models and customer experience metrics. These outputs will be informed by dummy versions of these data.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 2/20/2024
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 4/25/2024