# eCaremanager (Philips)
## VA-2024-0129
_[Department of Veterans Affairs](../3_agency/Department of Veterans Affairs.md)_ (VA) / VHA: Veterans Health Administration


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Health & Medical
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Creating visual representations of data sets for reports and presentations using AI.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: eCaremanager integrates clinical, physiological, and demographic data from all patients entered into the National TeleCC Program.  The data are presented graphically to users.  Additionally, the data are used to generate acuity scores to assess each patients acuity in comparison to all other patients.  Trend and threshold alerts are also generated to notify providers to take a closer look at those patients and initiate treatments to remediate derangements and facilitate return to homeostasis and health.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The outputs of eCaremanager are acuity scores and trend and threshold alerts.  The software also integrates and presents patient care information to enable providers to care for larger number of patients and provide critical care at a population level.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Both
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 1/1/2010
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 1/1/2010
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 1/1/2010
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: TCC ID: 2209
+ **Whether the agency requested an extension for this AI use case, in response to the CAIO’s request, of up to one year for the minimum requirements outlined in Section 5 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Yes – Agency requested an extension for this use case.