# Potential Fraud or Waste
## VA-2024-0036
_Department of Veterans Affairs_ (VA) / OM: Office of Management


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The Purchase Card dashboards are a suite of dashboards that allow various purchase card managers to monitor purchase card spending of employees. The dashboards help monitor for fraud, waste, and abuse, and assist in providing oversight for compliance with purchase card laws and policies. We have now incorporated advanced data analytics within the dashboard. The Advanced data Analytics model generates an expected received date for items. It then flags items that have gone beyond the expected generated date by flagging items that were received late (possible waste) and/or items that have not been received yet (possible fraud). This has the potential to save the analyst time by investigating cases that have been flagged as opposed to investigating potentially an entire dataset, which is what they have been doing up until now. The model analyzes all purchase card transactions including ordered, delivery, and recieved dates as its inputs. It outputs expected recieved dates. The intended users of the product are purhase card managers.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The Advanced data Analytics model generates an expected received date for items. It then flags items that have gone beyond the expected generated date by flagging items that were received late (possible waste) and/or items that have not been received yet (possible fraud).
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 4/1/2024
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed in-house.
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: No
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: Purchase card transaction details
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is complete: Documentation exists regarding the maintenance, composition, quality, and intended use of the training and evaluation data, as well as any statistical bias across model features and protected groups.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: ["Sex/Gender","Other"]
+ **Identification of the other demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: No demographic information is used.
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: Yes – agency has access to source code, but it is not public.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: No
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: 6-12 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: None: This use case does not re-use any internally developed tooling or managed infrastructure from any other AI development efforts within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Limited documentation for review: Some information regarding the model’s performance on specific benchmarks are available or have been shared with specific stakeholders within the agency.