# Ambient AI scribe
## VA-2024-0026
_Department of Veterans Affairs_ (VA) / VHA: Veterans Health Administration


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Health & Medical
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Transcribing and summarizing a recorded meeting or interview using AI.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Human scribes have been effective toward decreasing clinical documentation burden, increasing physician satisfaction, and decreasing physician time spent in the EHR during patient visits. However, notes written by humans are variable in quality. In addition, scribes are costly, requiring time to train and have high turnover. Ambient AI medical scribes and solutions to automate document processing show promising as potential solutions to reduce physician burnout. VA recently completed an AI Tech Sprint in this space and intends to pilot several of these solutions at VA Medical Centers.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The system produces written summaries of clinical encounters
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Both
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 5/21/2024
+ **Whether the agency requested an extension for this AI use case, in response to the CAIO’s request, of up to one year for the minimum requirements outlined in Section 5 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Yes – Agency requested an extension for this use case.