# Compliance Made Easy (CME) Cloud Optimization
## VA-2024-0169
_[Department of Veterans Affairs](../3_agency/Department of Veterans Affairs.md)_ (VA) / OIT: Office of Information & Technology


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Other
+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: This may fall under government services, but this is directly related to supporting the office of the executive secretary with official communications.
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Improving the quality of written communications using AI tools.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The purpose is to provide automated review of official communications against the approved VA style guide, tone, and other key elements to making communications to the public effectively. The goal is to reduce the amount of time needed to create and review the documents leading to saved time and money. The benefits of using AI include more intelligent control over a rule based system, low/no code updates to the model through direct NLP prompts to update the approved style guides, leveraging machine learning to improve communications and tone over time, less reliance on human intervention to review and edit communications.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: AI outputs will include updated communications style and formatting based on the style guide, suggested language to improve tone, readability and conciseness of communications, and data based on the model running.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 9/15/2024