# Electronic Virtual Assistant (e-VA)
## VA-2024-0125
_Department of Veterans Affairs_ (VA) / VBA: Veterans Benefits Administration


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The electronic Virtual Assistant (e-VA) information system is a product acquired from SaraWorks (formerly The Career Index (TCI)) by the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) Veteran Readiness & Employment (VR&E) Business Line. e-VA is a breakthrough digital assistant that does most of the work a human assistant can do in terms of client follow-up, data entry, and documentation. The primary objective for implementing e-VA is to provide virtual support services that will alleviate administrative tasks from Vocational Rehabilitation Counselors (VRCs), which enable them to focus their time on the Veterans’ needs, fulfilling VR&E’s mission of guiding Veterans to successful outcomes. e-VA is the only digital assistant focused on applying these autonomous capabilities to the complex field of human services. The e-VA system will create reminders for appointments, grades, receipts, etc. and accept documents and images, in addition to connecting program participants directly to their Counselor. The application also enables automated routine electronic communication with program participants through either text message and/or e-mail. Participants can interact with the e-VA application via text or email to schedule and reschedule appointments, respond to reminders, and submit supporting documents and receipts related to their VR&E case. The e-VA information system is single-tenant, which resides in SaraWorks private AWS GovCloud. It is not a public-facing system. The SARA Sync windows executable will receive information from the e-VA system, such as supporting documents, receipts, etc., case notes, or updating of status on their case. This information are transmitted to the VA database of record for storage.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Allow VRCs to focus on providing world-class service to our Veterans. The e-VA system will create reminders for appointments, grades, receipts, etc. and accept documents and images, in addition to connecting program participants directly to their Counselor. The Case Manager ID will be used to identify case managers and assigned caseload which will determine the location of the requested appointment. The application will also enable automated routine electronic communication with program participant through either text message and/or e-mail. Participants can interact with the e-VA application via text or email to schedule and reschedule appointments, respond to reminders, and submit supporting documents and receipts related to their VR&E case.  The SARA Sync windows will receive information from the e-VA system, such as supporting documents, receipts, etc., case notes, or updating of status on their case. This information are transmitted to the VA database of record for storage.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Both
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 6/1/2019
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 6/1/2019
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 6/20/2020
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with both contracting and in-house resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: 36C10E19P0165
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: No
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: We do not train e-VA
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is missing or not available: No documentation exists regarding maintenance, composition, quality, or intended use of the training and evaluation data.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: ["Other"]
+ **Identification of the other demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: None
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: No – agency does not have access to source code.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: electronic Virtual Assistant (e-VA) VASI: 2419
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: No
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Other
+ **Whether communication regarding the provisioning of requested resources for the AI use case has been timely**: e-VA does not do predictive modeling
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Other
+ **Explanation for whether communication regarding the provisioning of requested resources for the AI use case has been timely**: e-VA does not do predictive modeling
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: None: This use case does not re-use any internally developed tooling or managed infrastructure from any other AI development efforts within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: No documentation is available: No documentation detailing model performance metrics, model architecture, features and intended use of the models have been created or are currently accessible to other data science teams within the agency.
+ **Whether the agency requested an extension for this AI use case, in response to the CAIO’s request, of up to one year for the minimum requirements outlined in Section 5 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Yes – Agency requested an extension for this use case.