# National Cemetery Administration (NCA) Automated Claims Processing
## VA-2024-0053
_Department of Veterans Affairs_ (VA) / NCA: National Cemetery Administration


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Inputting large amounts of data from paper forms into a digital system using AI.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The purpose of the AI is to automate aspects of NCA benefits and application processing.  Currently it is applicable to the Pre-Need and Presidential Memorial Certificate programs. In the future other business lines may be included, such as the Headstones, Markers, Medallions, and Urns and Plaques programs. This benefits NCA by automating aspects of the workload (data entry, case creation, document digitization, letter creation, status updates).
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The Hyperscience platform (optical character recognition (OCR), natural language processing (NLP), and machine learning (ML)) extracts document data, uses application programming interfaces (APIs) to query data from other VA systems, and applies robotic process automation (RPA) to enter data into existing legacy NCA systems: Eligibility Office Automation System and Web Presidential Memorial Certificates.  As the case is processed, automation creates documents that combine relevant claimant information for use by claim agents, updates statuses, and creates letters as appropriate. No original content is created through these processes.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Rights-Impacting
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 4/1/2023
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 5/1/2023
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 8/14/2023
+ **Whether the agency requested an extension for this AI use case, in response to the CAIO’s request, of up to one year for the minimum requirements outlined in Section 5 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Yes – Agency requested an extension for this use case.