# TERA Memorandum Automation
## VA-2024-0064
_Department of Veterans Affairs_ (VA) / OIT: Office of Information & Technology


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Searching for information using AI.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Toxic Exposure Risk Activity (TERA) Memorandum Automation utilizes natural language processing (NLP) based algorithms to provide recommended decisions to support completing the TERA Memorandum form, a form that is required to be completed for most Veteran Disability Claims. This functionality will allow approved Veteran Service Representatives (VSRs) to auto-populate certain questions within the TERA Memorandum form in VBMS using evidence stored in the Claims Evidence drastically reducing the amount of time needed to manually review documents in Claim Evidence (eFolder) and streamlines claim processing. The system currently leverages data from C&P’s Smart Search service and utilizes NLP-based algorithms to identify potential evidence to support recommended decisions on specific questions of the TERA memo. The specific output includes an open-text field response with confidence score and links to documents for manual review. The intended users of the system are VSRs who complete the TERA memo.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Toxic Exposure Risk Activity (TERA) Memorandum Automation utilizes natural language processing (NLP) based algorithms to provide recommended decisions to support completing the TERA Memorandum form, a form that is required to be completed for most Veteran Disability Claims. This functionality will allow approved Veteran Service Representatives (VSRs) to auto-populate certain questions within the TERA Memorandum form in VBMS using evidence stored in the Claims Evidence drastically reducing the amount of time needed to manually review documents in Claim Evidence (eFolder) and streamlines claim processing. The system currently leverages data from C&P’s Smart Search service and utilizes NLP-based algorithms to identify potential evidence to support recommended decisions on specific questions of the TERA memo. The specific output includes an open-text field response with confidence score and links to documents for manual review. The intended users of the system are VSRs who complete the TERA memo.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 1/19/2024
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 1/19/2024
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 11/3/2024
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: BIP Compensation and Pension User Interface ID: 2049