# 2268 Next Generation (2268NextGen)
## VA-2024-0145
_[Department of Veterans Affairs](<../3_agency/Department of Veterans Affairs.md>)_ (VA) / OSVA: Office of the Secretary


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Other
+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: This system supports Federal contracting.
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Inputting large amounts of data from paper forms into a digital system using AI.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: We receive information via a PDF VA Form. AI builder, a Microsoft product, “reads” the PDF VA Form and the information is transferred to a D-365 CRM database. This transfer of information from the PDF document to the database minimizes the need for human intervention and typographical errors.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The AI Builder provides digital data from a PDF Document.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Implementation and Assessment
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 5/10/2022
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 4/11/2023
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 10/2/2023
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: VEMS ID: 1018