# Stratification Tool for Opioid Risk Mitigation (STORM) predictive model
## VA-2024-0138
_Department of Veterans Affairs_ (VA) / VHA: Veterans Health Administration


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Health & Medical
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The STORM model is a predictive model to estimate risk of a suicide or overdose-related health care event or death in the next year.  The model uses patient level predictors extracted from the patient’s medical records (into the VA’s Corporate Data Warehouse), such as diagnoses, prescriptions, and health care utilization, etc.  
This predictive model is used for three purposes. (1) Primary use case is to identify patients at elevated risk of suicide or overdose-related events for referral to an interdisciplinary team for clinical case review.  This team makes treatment recommendations to share with treating providers and documents them in the medical record. The STORM algorithm is used to identify patients to refer to this program at each facility.  Assignment to this case management program has been shown to reduce all-cause mortality in patients estimated at “very high” risk on the STORM predictive model by 22% in the next 4 months. (2) Secondary use case is to help risk stratify patients based on prior health care interactions to support augmentation of risk mitigation interventions and treatments for patients with patterns of care associated with risk of suicide or overdose events. Risk estimates are provided as a sorting/filtering and informational feature on the STORM clinical decision support system.  This decision support system enables population management of patients prescribed opioids or with opioid use disorders, as well as providing curated information to support treatment planning for individual patients. (3) The last use case is to meet the requirements of the Comprehensive Addiction Recovery Act (CARA) mandating that clinicians use VA decision support tools to review patient risks prior to initiating opioid therapy for pain.  Direct synchronized links from the VISTA medical record to the STORM report integrate this decision support summary information into clinician workflows as a support for risk assessment before writing and initial opioid prescription.  Each of these use cases is built into existing clinical workflows completed by overlapping, but different health care providers. For use case 1, designated interdisciplinary risk review teams at each health care system use the risk estimates to determine which patient require risk review.  For use case 2, VA health care providers (e.g., opioid prescribers) and teams (e.g., primary care and general mental health teams) use the risk estimates in combination with decision support recommendations of interventions to consider facilitate and augment risk assessment and treatment planning for their patients on opioid analgesics or being treated for opioid use disorder.  For use case 3, VA medication prescribers or their delegated team members use the categorized risk scores in the context of curated descriptive data from the patient’s medical record to review risk factors and consider risk and benefits of treatment options for pain management before prescribing opioids.  Risk considerations are documented in a clinical note for tracking.   Use of STORM is expected to improve decision-making about opioid prescribing and treatment of patients with opioid use disorders, as well as consistency of use of clinical practice guideline recommended treatment practices for safe management of patients exposed to opioids.  STORM also focuses on ensuring recognition of patient risks and facilitating care coordination across treatment providers for complex patients with multiple interacting disorders. By improving use of risk mitigation practices and treatment interventions, we expect STORM will reduce adverse outcomes for patients exposed to opioids.  Program evaluations support this expectation, finding that implementation of the targeted interdisciplinary review requirements associated with use case 1 significantly reduced all cause mortality in the targeted patient population. 

Links: https://psycnet.apa.org/buy/2017-03732-004
https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/10.1080/08897077.2018.1540376
https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11606-022-07622-1
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC10698768/
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The STORM predictive model estimates the risk of having an overdose or suicide-related event in next year for all patients currently receiving a VA opioid analgesic prescription with nightly updates.  For all other active VHA patients, the STORM predictive model estimates the hypothetical risk of having an overdose or suicide-related event in next year, if the patient was prescribed or otherwise had access to low, medium, or high dose opioid analgesics.  These risk estimates are provided to clinicians on a family of dashboards, both as percentage likelihood of an event in the next year, and as a categorical grouping of estimated low, medium, high or very high risk.   Paired with this risk estimate is a summary of all risk factors identified and considered in generating the risk estimate for that patient, and recommendations for risk mitigation and treatment options to consider.  These recommendations are tailored based on patient characteristics identified in the medical record (e.g. Medications for opioid use disorder are recommended for patients seen for an opioid use disorder diagnosis) and patient receipt of these interventions is tracked and displayed on the dashboard.  The STORM dashboards are used by clinicians as an informational tool to summarize and organize medical record information to support risk reviews during treatment planning (e.g. when considering an opioid prescription), for management of patients prescribed opioids or treated for opioid use disorder, and for interdisciplinary case reviews of very high risk patients to ensure safe and effective care coordination and treatment planning across health care providers.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Both
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 6/1/2012
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 6/1/2012
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 6/1/2015
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed in-house.
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: Clinical data came from the VHA National Corporate Data Warehouse, an archival data set that contains comprehensive patient-by-patient, encounter-by-encounter clinical and administrative data derived from the Department of Veterans Affairs’ electronic medical records. Data regarding vital status and cause of death were from the National Death Index, a centralized database maintained by the National Center for Health Statistics of death record information on file in state vital statistics offices.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is widely available: Documentation is not only complete, but is widely accessible within the agency, and has an owner and a regular update cadence.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any**: ["Marital Status","Sex/Gender","Age"]
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: Yes – agency has access to source code, but it is not public.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: VA Corporate Data Warehouse - 1152
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: Re-use production level code from a different use-case: This use case re-uses production level code and/or internally developed code libraries for model development from existing AI systems or repositories inside the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Limited documentation for review: Some information regarding the model’s performance on specific benchmarks are available or have been shared with specific stakeholders within the agency.
+ **Whether the agency requested an extension for this AI use case, in response to the CAIO’s request, of up to one year for the minimum requirements outlined in Section 5 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: No – Agency did not request an extension for this use case.
+ **Whether an AI impact assessment for the AI use case has been completed, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(A) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. This assessment should document at least the intended purpose for the AI and its expected benefits, the potential risks of using the AI, and the quality and appropriateness of the relevant data**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case has been tested for performance in a real-world environment to understand its potential impact on individual(s) or communities, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(B) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Impact evaluation in operational environment: The AI use case has been tested in an operational environment before being fully implemented as a solution and has utilized randomized experiments with a control group or other counterfactual, social systems analysis, or other rigorous research methodologies to evaluate impact and identify potential harm to users as well as broader groups of people.
+ **Identification of the reasonably foreseeable risks from using the AI use case, to include the risk of inequitable outcomes for individuals. This can be informed by publicly known risks identified in similar use cases or contexts. Examples of such risks include at least physical injury, emotional/psychological injury, opportunity loss, economic loss, privacy loss, environmental impact, or civil rights and civil liberties impact**: (1) Providers might over-rely on statistical risk assessment. This risk was a concern based on known tendencies of some providers to over-interpret recommendations as requirements.  This tendency was observed in a minority of providers and addressed explicitly in training and training materials moving forward.  (2) The program could be clinically inefficient and use provider time that might be more effectively focused elsewhere.  This is a concern for all VHA clinical programs, and VHA management consistently seeks to optimize clinical time and attention towards achieving the greatest patient benefit.  (3) The program could lead to unfair allocation of clinical resources if the model is biased and other clinical programming does not compensate for areas of model under-performance. Here, a targeted case review is required for patients identified as "very high" risk per the STORM predictive model, though all clinical services are available and recommended for all patients based on clinical indication in the STORM decision support system.   After review of the common risks template, the following risks were identified: Fair & Equitable (FE) - Algorithm target not reflective of real-world outcome of interest Response: There is a risk that changes in population exposures and behaviors related to opioids may alter patterns of risk away from those the model was trained on.    Transparent & Explainable (TE) - Degradation of End-User Trust and Ineffective Challenge or Remedy Processes Response: This is a risk, there has been public misunderstanding of how VA predictive models are developed and used. VA has responded and clarified misconceptions where concerns have been raised.  Accountable & Monitored (AM) - Performance Efficacy and Fairness (e.g. Model/Data Drift, Model Degradation, or inappropriate application)  Response: This is a risk, model performance is degrading over time and an update is in process. However all identified patients are clinically complex and appropriate for clinical attention.  Accountable & Monitored (AM) - User-Introduced Errors Response: There is a low risk, there is a community of practice and regular monthly education to support proper implementation of the VA opioid safety program, including the STORM decision support system and predictive model.  Accountable & Monitored (AM) - System Performance Not as Intended Response: There is a low risk, team has validation processes to review all steps.
+ **Whether an independent evaluation of the AI use case has been conducted through the CAIO, an agency AI oversight board, or other appropriate agency office with existing test and evaluation responsibilities, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(C) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. The independent reviewing authority must not have been directly involved in the AI system’s development**: TRUE
+ **Whether there’s an established process for monitoring performance of the AI system’s functionality and changes to its impact on rights and/or safety, including, if relevant, the risk of AI-enabled discrimination, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(D) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Intermittent and Manually Updated: A plan for monitoring the AI use case is in place, and requires data science teams to work with DevOps engineers to manually update models at scheduled intervals, and create metrics to detect data distribution shifts between the operational environment and the training data for the model.
+ **Whether the agency has determined that the AI can carry out its individual core decisions or actions that could result in a significant impact on rights and safety without direct human involvement. The answer should not be “yes” if humans are not reviewing individual decisions and are only overseeing or reviewing the performance of the system in general**: No - Some individual decisions or actions require direct human oversight.
+ **How the agency is providing reasonable and timely notice regarding the use of AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(I) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Online - in the terms or instructions for the service.
+ **How the agency has assessed whether there are significant disparities in the AI’s performance across demographic groups, including in the AI’s real-world deployment, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(A) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Yes
+ **How the agency has consulted affected groups, including underserved communities, in the design, development, and use of the AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(B) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: VA has examined performance of the STORM model for estimating overdose and suicide -related risk among Veterans in VHA care, stratified by patient sex, race and ethnicity.  The first iteration of model performance evaluation is described in List et al., 2023, available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC10698768/.   The main finding from this evaluation was that the model tended to underestimate risk in non-white populations in years subsequent to the year the model was trained on.  This underestimation tracked population level changes in opioid overdose rates across this period, as there was a significant increase in observed overdose rates in non-white populations between the model training year and later years.  This finding emphasized the importance of regular updating of the predictive model to address changes in risk contributions in the U.S. population over time.  Additional efforts to optimize bias evaluation methods were undertaken utilizing the STORM model as an example (Meerwijk et al., 2024).  While this evaluation emphasized the complexity of bias evaluation, it also suggested opportunities for improvement of model performance, particularly for older adults, who tend to utilize VHA mental health services less than younger VHA patients. Guided by these findings, VHA is actively working on an update to the STORM predictive model, incorporating a significantly expanded set of candidate predictor variables in hopes of better capturing indications of risk across subpopulations and optimizing the model to reflect evolving trends in opioid exposure and outcomes. As part of this effort, VHA has built a decision support infrastructure to enable remodeling, model evaluation, and model deployment into VHA clinical decision support systems on an annual or as-needed cycle.    References:  Meerwijk EL, McElfresh DC, Martins S, Tamang SR. Evaluating accuracy and fairness of clinical decision support algorithms when health care resources are limited. J Biomed Inform. 2024 Aug;156:104664. doi: 10.1016/j.jbi.2024.104664. Epub 2024 Jun 6. PMID: 38851413.   List JM, Palevsky P, Tamang S, Crowley S, Au D, Yarbrough WC, Navathe AS, Kreisler C, Parikh RB, Wang-Rodriguez J, Klutts JS, Conlin P, Pogach L, Meerwijk E, Moy E. Eliminating Algorithmic Racial Bias in Clinical Decision Support Algorithms: Use Cases from the Veterans Health Administration. Health Equity. 2023 Nov 30;7(1):809-816. doi: 10.1089/heq.2023.0037. PMID: 38076213; PMCID: PMC10698768.
+ **How the agency has consulted affected groups, including underserved communities, in the design, development, and use of the AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(B) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: ["Direct user testing"]
+ **Whether the agency has established a fallback and escalation process, which may include reverting to manual human processes, in the event that an impacted individual would like to appeal or contest an AI system’s outcome, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(E) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: No – it is not operationally practical to offer this.
+ **Why the agency does not have an established fallback and escalation process**: While we do have a process via which a patient can request to not have risk estimates created, the output of the system only consists of information to guide clinical decision-making.  All decisions and outcomes are driven by the clinician treating the patient.
+ **Whether the agency has established an opt-out mechanism, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(F) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Yes