# CareLink Home Monitoring
## VA-2024-0136
_Department of Veterans Affairs_ (VA) / VHA: Veterans Health Administration


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Health & Medical
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The CareLink home monitoring system collects data transmitted by patients with implanted cardiac monitors from their homes for review by clinicians on a password protected Web page. Transmissions are made by the monitors when certain criteria are met suggesting an important heart rhythm abnormality is present. A proprietary industry-created AI system evaluates the transmitted data and classifies whether the findings that triggered the transmissions are true arrhythmias or false positives. The home monitoring system for Carelink Reveal Linq and Linq II uses AI deep learning algorithms flowing into the CareLink network to remove false AFib and false pause episodes. The staff of the VA National Cardiac Device Surveillance program and the patients’ providers at local VA clinics use this AI when evaluating patient implanted cardiac monitor transmissions.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: It eliminates false positive atrial fibrillation and pause events recorded by Medtronic implanted loop recorders when you are reviewing data from these devices on the Medtronic Carelink web page.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Both
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 11/13/2023
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: Yes
+ **Identification of the High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) that the AI use case supports**: Veterans Health Administration
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Description of how the agency is ensuring that this AI use case is compliant with Information Quality Act guidelines and OMB Memorandum M-19-15, if applicable**: This is an FDA approved use of AI
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: No
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Other
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the rights datasets to begin model development**: This is an commercially developed and deployed FDA approved AI use. The VA was not part of its development.
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: This is an commercially developed and deployed FDA approved AI use. The VA was not part of its development.
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: No
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: No – agency does not have access to source code.
+ **Link to publicly available source code for the AI use case, if available, in alignment with OMB Memorandum M-24-10’s section on sharing**: Not open source
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: No
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Other
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Other
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: None: This use case does not re-use any internally developed tooling or managed infrastructure from any other AI development efforts within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: No documentation is available: No documentation detailing model performance metrics, model architecture, features and intended use of the models have been created or are currently accessible to other data science teams within the agency.