# VA Supply Chain Knowledge Management Dashboard
## VA-2024-0089
_Department of Veterans Affairs_ (VA) / VHA: Veterans Health Administration


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Searching for information using AI.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The goal is to leverage already existing Power BI tools to enhance search and learning capabilities. 
The Power BI dashboards are for internal VALOR mission topics that require timely and more precise knowledge management (KM) and lessons learned output from publicly available documentation (ex. congressional reports). 

THIS CAPABILITY IS NOT RIGHTS OR SAFETY IMPACTING AS IT DOES NOT ACCESS ANY INDIVIDUALS INFORMATION.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: This involves enabling a knowledge management strategy that includes advanced data analysis tools (AI and ML) from Power BI stakeholder engagement for validation, dynamic dashboards for knowledge sharing, and continuous improvement processes. This strategy ensures that knowledge is effectively captured, validated, shared, and utilized to drive continuous improvement and mitigate risks.   The expected impact includes internal mission use by VALOR for improved risk mitigation, enhanced collaboration, and continuous process improvement.  And the overall outputs are only data provided by the public documents.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 7/24/2024
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 8/2/2024