## VA-2024-0043
+ **Title of the AI use case:**: Computer Aided Detection (CADe) of Neoplasia during Colonoscopy - “GI Genius”
+ **Agency responsible for the AI use case:**: Department of Veterans Affairs
+ **Agency abbreviation:**: VA
+ **Specific organization(s) within the agency responsible for the AI use case:**: VHA: Veterans Health Administration
+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case:**: Health & Medical
+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case:**: 
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B:**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public:**: GI Genius™, a commercial product distributed by Medtronic, Inc., is a computer-aided detection module, powered by artificial intelligence, designed to aid endoscopists in detecting colonic mucosal lesions (such as polyps and adenomas) during colonoscopy. The FDA cleared this commercial product in April 2021.
The device physically connects to existing endoscopes, video processors, and display monitors, but does not connect to the VA network.
During endoscopy, the CADe device automatically detects, and highlights suspected neoplastic lesions / polyps in real time. The module was trained and validated with white-light endoscopy videos and continues to be refined with growing datasets. Information about the indications, safety and warnings can be found here: GI Genius™ Intelligent Endoscopy Module - Indications, Safety, and Warnings | Medtronic (https://www.medtronic.com/covidien/en-us/products/gastrointestinal-artificial-intelligence/gi-genius-intelligent-endoscopy/indications-safety-warnings.html)
Multiple studies and meta-analyses have found these devices increase adenoma detection rates, a well-established metric for colonoscopy quality that is related to colon cancer incidence and death. Initial randomized implementation of the devices across VA facilities allowed for a pragmatic evaluation of the impact of these devices on adenoma detection. The evaluation demonstrated that the provision of colonoscopy CADe devices resulted in a statistically significant 21% increase in the odds of adenoma detection and an absolute increase in ADR of approximately 4% compared to colonoscopy without CADe. These devices will improve ADR, which should decrease colorectal cancer incidence and mortality amongst Veterans over time.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc:**: The device physically connects to existing endoscopes, video processors, and display monitors, but does not connect to the VA network.  During endoscopy, the CADe device automatically detects, and highlights suspected neoplastic lesions / polyps in real time on the display monitor.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC):**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: Both
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined:**: 6/1/2022
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began:**: 6/30/2022
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use:**: 10/12/2023
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement:**: 
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both:**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case:**: 36C10X22X0045
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/:**: Yes
+ **Identification of the High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) that the AI use case supports:**: Veterans Health Administration
+ **Identification of the specific public-facing service that the AI use case supports:**: 
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public:**: No
+ **Description of how the agency is ensuring that this AI use case is compliant with Information Quality Act guidelines and OMB Memorandum M-19-15, if applicable:**: Not Applicable. This device does not disseminate information to the public; nor does it store or disseminate any information at all.
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130:**: No
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case:**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development:**: Other
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the rights datasets to begin model development:**: Not applicable. No data catalog or repository required.
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor:**: No agency-owned data have been, nor are being, used to train the device. However, initial output/outcome evaluations of the device were conducted. The impact of CADe on adenoma detection rate (ADR) was not moderated by patient race, ethnicity, gender, or rurality (p>.05 for each); however, it was moderated by patient age (OR 1.02, 95% CI 1.00-1.03, p=.02), indicating that improvement in ADR after CADe availability was greater for older patients. The impact of CADe on ADR was moderated by the number of years since an endoscopist’s medical degree (OR 1.02; 95% CI 1.00-1.04, p =.04), indicating that ADR improvement with CADe availability was greater for endoscopists with more years since their medical degree. The impact of CADe on ADR was not moderated by endoscopist specialty or sex (p >.05 for both).
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task:**: Documentation has been partially completed: Some documentation exists (detailing the composition and any statistical bias or measurement skew for training and evaluation purposes), but documentation took place within this use case’s development.
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any:**: ["Other"]
+ **Identification of the other demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any:**: None. It does not have access to, nor use, any demographic variables.
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code:**: No
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case:**: No – agency does not have access to source code.
+ **Link to publicly available source code for the AI use case, if available, in alignment with OMB Memorandum M-24-10’s section on sharing:**: 
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO:**: No
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO:**: 
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments:**: 
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency:**: No
+ **Explanation for whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency:**: 
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models:**: Other
+ **Whether communication regarding the provisioning of requested resources for the AI use case has been timely:**: Not Applicable. This AI is a commercial, off the shelf, FDA cleared device.
+ **:**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether communication regarding the provisioning of requested resources for the AI use case has been timely:**: 
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development:**: None: This use case does not re-use any internally developed tooling or managed infrastructure from any other AI development efforts within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency:**: Limited documentation for review: Some information regarding the model’s performance on specific benchmarks are available or have been shared with specific stakeholders within the agency.
+ **Whether the agency requested an extension for this AI use case, in response to the CAIO’s request, of up to one year for the minimum requirements outlined in Section 5 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: No – Agency did not request an extension for this use case.
+ **Whether an AI impact assessment for the AI use case has been completed, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(A) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. This assessment should document at least the intended purpose for the AI and its expected benefits, the potential risks of using the AI, and the quality and appropriateness of the relevant data:**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case has been tested for performance in a real-world environment to understand its potential impact on individual(s) or communities, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(B) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: Impact evaluation in operational environment: The AI use case has been tested in an operational environment before being fully implemented as a solution and has utilized randomized experiments with a control group or other counterfactual, social systems analysis, or other rigorous research methodologies to evaluate impact and identify potential harm to users as well as broader groups of people.
+ **Identification of the reasonably foreseeable risks from using the AI use case, to include the risk of inequitable outcomes for individuals. This can be informed by publicly known risks identified in similar use cases or contexts. Examples of such risks include at least physical injury, emotional/psychological injury, opportunity loss, economic loss, privacy loss, environmental impact, or civil rights and civil liberties impact:**: Possible risk of increased false positive detection of colorectal lesions leading to unnecessary biopsies or polypectomy. This could result in increased costs and potential complications. Risk of over-reliance on detection by the physician (i.e., automation bias) Risk to education / training of fellows who may become reliant on the technology.
+ **Whether an independent evaluation of the AI use case has been conducted through the CAIO, an agency AI oversight board, or other appropriate agency office with existing test and evaluation responsibilities, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(C) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. The independent reviewing authority must not have been directly involved in the AI system’s development:**: TRUE
+ **Whether there’s an established process for monitoring performance of the AI system’s functionality and changes to its impact on rights and/or safety, including, if relevant, the risk of AI-enabled discrimination, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(D) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: Intermittent and Manually Updated: A plan for monitoring the AI use case is in place, and requires data science teams to work with DevOps engineers to manually update models at scheduled intervals, and create metrics to detect data distribution shifts between the operational environment and the training data for the model.
+ **Whether the agency has determined that the AI can carry out its individual core decisions or actions that could result in a significant impact on rights and safety without direct human involvement. The answer should not be “yes” if humans are not reviewing individual decisions and are only overseeing or reviewing the performance of the system in general:**: No - Some individual decisions or actions require direct human oversight.
+ **How the agency is providing reasonable and timely notice regarding the use of AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(I) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: 
+ **How the agency is providing reasonable and timely notice regarding the use of AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(I) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: Other
+ **Whether the AI use case significantly influences the outcome of an adverse decision or action, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(D) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Examples include the denial of benefits or deeming a transaction fraudulent:**: 
+ **How the agency has assessed whether there are significant disparities in the AI’s performance across demographic groups, including in the AI’s real-world deployment, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(A) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: No
+ **How the agency has consulted affected groups, including underserved communities, in the design, development, and use of the AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(B) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: This FDA cleared AI device was formally evaluated by VA specifically looking for evidence of disparities in performance. The AI device was equally beneficial for all demographic groups evaluated, including by sex, race, and ethnicity. There was a modest increase in benefit with increasing patient age, which may be related to the increased prevalence of precancerous polyps with age.
+ **How the agency has consulted affected groups, including underserved communities, in the design, development, and use of the AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(B) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: ["Direct user testing","Post-transaction customer feedback collections"]
+ **How the agency has consulted affected groups, including underserved communities, in the design, development, and use of the AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(B) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: 
+ **Whether the agency has established a fallback and escalation process, which may include reverting to manual human processes, in the event that an impacted individual would like to appeal or contest an AI system’s outcome, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(E) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: No – it is not operationally practical to offer this.
+ **Why the agency does not have an established fallback and escalation process:**: This FDA cleared device is designed to assist the endoscopist in recognizing potential colorectal pathology; it does not make a diagnosis. It is ultimately the physician’s decision whether to act upon the findings highlighted by the AI device. The physician has full discretion in these actions. The physician can also turn off the device. There is no mandate to use this device.
+ **Whether the agency has established an opt-out mechanism, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(F) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has established an opt-out mechanism, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(F) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: 