# VSTOne – AI-Driven Patient Monitoring and Care Delivery
## VA-2024-0183
_[Department of Veterans Affairs](<../3_agency/Department of Veterans Affairs.md>)_ (VA) / VHA: Veterans Health Administration


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Health & Medical
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Identifying unusual patterns in system logs from a single incident report using AI.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Supporting Care Through AI

The healthcare industry is at a critical juncture due to the convergence of rising patient demands and severe staffing shortage, specially in nursing. According to the U.S Bureau of Labor Statistics projection in 2022, American hospitals will be hiring 1,100,00 registered nurse positions. In response to this challenge AI driven patient monitoring care delivery can proactively assist nurses.
The integration of artificial intelligence into healthcare presents a unique opportunity to enhance patient outcomes while supporting clinical staff in an increasingly challenging environment. With the looming shortage of nursing staff and the growing demand for patient care, there is an urgent need for technological solutions that support nurses in their roles. Today, I present VSTOne, an innovative AI solution designed to assist nurses, prevent patient falls, and improve care quality through continuous monitoring and real-time alerts.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Supporting Care Through AI VSTOne leverages advanced AI to provide comprehensive monitoring solutions that address several critical areas of patient care: • Assisting Nurses: Automated monitoring allows nurses to focus on higher-level care tasks. • Preventing Falls: The system predicts potential falls 30-65 seconds in advance, allowing timely intervention. • Preventing Pressure Ulcers: Early detection of pressure ulcer risks through continuous monitoring of patient movement. • Telemetry and Telehealth: Vitals are tracked via wearable patches, providing real-time data to clinicians, and enabling telehealth consultations.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Both
+ **Whether the agency requested an extension for this AI use case, in response to the CAIO’s request, of up to one year for the minimum requirements outlined in Section 5 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Yes – Agency requested an extension for this use case.