# Classifying the reportability of and extracting cancer diagnosis information from pathology reports or other clinical documents
## VA-2024-0151
_Department of Veterans Affairs_ (VA) / VHA: Veterans Health Administration


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Health & Medical
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Searching for information using AI.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The intended purpose is to highlight and show the extracted information by the system along with the original context for review by the nurse coordinators, within the health informatics tools currently in production, in the National Oncology Program Office. This will decrease the nurse coordinators’ information gathering time and improving their information efficiency. Information may also help identify Veterans with diagnoses of interest for review by the coordinator allowing for additional resources to be activated to support the Veteran if they meet program criteria. 
We do not anticipate this AI to be either safety impacting or rights impacting. The output does not serve as a principal basis for a decision. Coordinators are expected to review the output and corroborate its veracity using source information obtained from the EHR. The system resides completely within approved VA IT boundaries that are fully compliant with FISMA and HIPAA rules with availability and reliability set by OI&T. The information that the algorithm uses for input and its output relates to patient and disease features related to cancer diagnoses and therefore are unlikely to perpetuate inequalities related to protected characteristics. They are unrelated to educational benefits, housing grants, loans, risk assessment for insurance, job training programs, employment services, vocational rehabilitation, or hiring. It does not impact claims and benefits processing.
While the system is envisioned to increase the efficiency of coordinators identifying information elements related the Veteran’s cancer diagnoses, these elements are not envisioned to be related to race, nor creating or promoting disparities. On the contrary, by improving coordinator efficiency, we believe the system will allow more Veterans to be supported; decreasing any existing inequities. It will also allow Coordinators be spend less time gathering information and more time interacting with Veterans, improving their ability to connect with the Veteran, learn about them, and provide Veteran-centric support, including care coordination, tracking, providing access to clinical trials if the Veteran is interested per standard of care policy set by the National Oncology Program Office, or provide other types of support. The system will make it easier for Coordinators to locate information about Veterans related to their diagnoses, however it will not be used for diagnosing disease, recommending treatment plans nor as a tool to monitor a patient’s health. It will not be used for health assessments or interventions, manage or dispense medications, or to automate labs. It will not make any decisions for the provider, but will make it easier for the provider to identify information elements of interest in the course of supporting Veterans. The system will also be entirely redundant, meaning Coordinators will still use information from the EHR to perform their workflows, both to find information about Veterans and to document their interactions. Coordinators will be able to fall back to EHR workflows should the system is unavailable for any reason.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Binary label of reportability, i.e. if there is cancer diagnosis in the report. This will be highlighted in the original context and output along with the original context for nurse coordinators to review.  Cancer diagnosis information including histology, site, and subsite. This will be highlighted in the original context and output along with the original context for nurse coordinators to review.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither