# Smart AI Bot Assistant
## VA-2024-0013
_Department of Veterans Affairs_ (VA) / VHA: Veterans Health Administration


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Health & Medical
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: A machine learning and natural language processing algorithm will be trained to provide real-time prompts of resources to improve the quality of crisis calls for the Veterans Crisis Line (VCL). Curated, vetted resources will be prompted by keywords for responders to consider during a crisis call. Natural language processing will be used to listen and document during and after the call, organizing the documentation to include topic areas and key points. This will decrease the time spent on documentation, improve the responder workflow, and provide needed downtime for responders to debrief with colleagues and take breaks. Additionally, the chat bot could detect the need for supervisory support during a call, improving real-time communication between a VCL responder and their supervisor. The use cases for the AI will be reviewed by VA experts and subject matter experts, with the draft use cases requiring technical steps to build, pilot test, and refine.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Smart Responder Chat Bot Use Case #1 – Real time resources for VCL responders   Using machine learning and natural language processing an algorithm will be trained based on feedback from the Veterans Crisis Line staff and crisis line responders to provide real-time prompts of resources to improve the quality of the crisis call. Curated, vetted resources will be prompted by key words for the responder to consider using during a crisis call.   Smart Responder Chat Bot Use Case #2 – AI documentation for VCL responders   To improve the time each Veterans Crisis Line responder spends on documentation during and after a crisis call, natural language processing will be used to listen and document during and after the call. The documentation will be organized to include the topic areas and key points required in documentation and provide a final draft editable by the responder. This use case will; decrease the time spent by responders on documentation, improve the responder workflow for VCL operations, and provide needed downtime away from both answering calls and documentation for responder to debrief with colleagues, accomplish other tasks and take necessary breaks to improve overall responder wellbeing.   Smart Responder Chat Bot Use Case #3 – AI for supervisory support during a call   Using machine learning and natural language processing including sentiment analysis, a chat bot could detect the need for a responder to seek supervisory support. Improving the real-time communication between a VCL responder and their supervisor during a call that is challenging (eg. Inappropriate language, escalating rapidly, etc.) could be a useful use case.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Initiated
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Rights-Impacting
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 9/19/2024
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with both contracting and in-house resources.
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: Yes
+ **Identification of the High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) that the AI use case supports**: Veterans Health Administration
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: No
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Other
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the rights datasets to begin model development**: TBD
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: TBD
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is missing or not available: No documentation exists regarding maintenance, composition, quality, or intended use of the training and evaluation data.
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: No – agency does not have access to source code.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: No
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: 6-12 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Other
+ **Explanation for whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: TBD
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Other
+ **Whether communication regarding the provisioning of requested resources for the AI use case has been timely**: TBD
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Other
+ **Explanation for whether communication regarding the provisioning of requested resources for the AI use case has been timely**: TBD
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: Use of existing data platforms: This use case is being developed on existing enterprise data and analytics platforms within the agency rather than procuring additional platforms or SaaS to operate.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: No documentation is available: No documentation detailing model performance metrics, model architecture, features and intended use of the models have been created or are currently accessible to other data science teams within the agency.