# VA Section 508 Office URL Ownership Prediction Model
## VA-2024-0051
_Department of Veterans Affairs_ (VA) / OIT: Office of Information & Technology


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Purpose of the AI system is to predict the administrative agency that owns URLs.  The AI system reduces the level of effort and turnaround time for the OIT 508 Office to curate URLs and coordinate with VA Administrations to review and, as necessary, remediate URLs for accessibility compliance.  In the absence of the AI system both the 508 Office and VA Administrations would be required to undertake a lengthy and iterative process to identify the VA Administration that is the formal owner of a URL.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The AI Model has two outputs.  1) Agency Owner with responses as: VHA, VBA, NCA, VACO, OIT, OCTO, and Unknown.  2) Prediction Score ranging from 0 to 1.  The system is comprised of manually executed scripts using the AI model on local GFE.  Besides the AI model, the scripts additionally apply manually constructed business rules and create prepopulated excel files for each VA Administration to use for quarterly reviews and data entry.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 11/1/2023
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 11/1/2023
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 11/13/2023
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed in-house.
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: No
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Other
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the rights datasets to begin model development**: In conjunction with the 508 Office we have confirmed that a comparable data set does not exist to with URL ownership data.
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: The data of available URLs is obtained from Google Analytics as part of the GSA Digital Analytics Program.  Data to train the model is based on SME input from the VA administrations as part of their review process.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation has been partially completed: Some documentation exists (detailing the composition and any statistical bias or measurement skew for training and evaluation purposes), but documentation took place within this use case’s development.
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: Yes – agency has access to source code, but it is not public.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: No
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: None.  The system is GFE operated by OIT staff member providing consultative support to 508 Office.
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: No
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: No
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Other
+ **Explanation for whether communication regarding the provisioning of requested resources for the AI use case has been timely**: VA OIT(CRR)(DAPR)(DAPM) is the office providing support to the VA(OIT)(CRR)(RR)(508 Office).  DAPM relies exclusively upon GFE and locally installed tools in the absence of pending authorization to access AI infrastructure in the SDP.
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: None: This use case does not re-use any internally developed tooling or managed infrastructure from any other AI development efforts within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Limited documentation for review: Some information regarding the model’s performance on specific benchmarks are available or have been shared with specific stakeholders within the agency.