# Nediser reports QA
## VA-2024-0199
_[Department of Veterans Affairs](<../3_agency/Department of Veterans Affairs.md>)_ (VA) / VHA: Veterans Health Administration


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Health & Medical
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Nediser is a continuously trained artificial intelligence “radiology resident” that assists radiologists in drafting their reports. Using computer vision/ML, Nediser selects normal templates (for example, the knee, shoulder joint), detects absence or presence of hardware in the image, evaluate patella alignment and leg length and angle discrepancy, measure Cobb angles, and evaluate hip exams for osteoarthritis. The output is directed to a QC field in the report that the Radiologist may use. The output helps standardize reports and improve accuracy of reporting.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The system classifies arthritis grade and performs measurements which are output to a QC field in dictation software as a draft that the Radiologist may or may not incorporate into their report templates. This is similar to a Radiology resident who provides draft reports that the Attending Radiologist reviews. The system can also detect objects and landmarks to assist in making measurements and identify abnormality. The output are landmark annotations and measurements. However, these outputs are not sent to the production PACS. They are stored in a secure directory which the Radiologists can refer to and do not become part of the medical record. All original production DICOM images are deleted after processing. Nediser saves de-identified JPG images and reports (no PHI) for audit and review of system performance, and to further train the model is necessary.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Both
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 12/1/2020
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 12/1/2020
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 1/1/2021
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed in-house.
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: No
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Yes
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: Radiology images within VISN 21 are used for training and fine-tuning. The original data set for training the system comes from Stanford University through IRB-approved research.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is widely available: Documentation is not only complete, but is widely accessible within the agency, and has an owner and a regular update cadence.
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: Yes – agency has access to source code, but it is not public.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: No
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: Nediser
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: No
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: No
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: None: This use case does not re-use any internally developed tooling or managed infrastructure from any other AI development efforts within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Documentation has been published: Complete documentation has been published to a repository or data catalog within the agency and is made accessible to other data science teams for review and feedback.
+ **Whether the agency requested an extension for this AI use case, in response to the CAIO’s request, of up to one year for the minimum requirements outlined in Section 5 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: No – Agency did not request an extension for this use case.
+ **Whether an AI impact assessment for the AI use case has been completed, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(A) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. This assessment should document at least the intended purpose for the AI and its expected benefits, the potential risks of using the AI, and the quality and appropriateness of the relevant data**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case has been tested for performance in a real-world environment to understand its potential impact on individual(s) or communities, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(B) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Performance evaluation in operational environment: The AI use case has been tested in an operational environment before being fully implemented as a solution, or has been tested in simulated or controlled environment using operational or synthetic data.
+ **Identification of the reasonably foreseeable risks from using the AI use case, to include the risk of inequitable outcomes for individuals. This can be informed by publicly known risks identified in similar use cases or contexts. Examples of such risks include at least physical injury, emotional/psychological injury, opportunity loss, economic loss, privacy loss, environmental impact, or civil rights and civil liberties impact**: Nediser is a system that receives Radiology images from the PACS. The system uses AI/computer vision/CNNs to perform several tasks including: identify landmarks on the images to perform measurements of lengths and angles of the lower legs and spine, identifies the absence or presence of hardware, and classifies the grade of hip arthritis. Before the models were deployed in operation, their performance were evaluated with testing and validation, and performance have been published in peer reviewed scientific conferences and/or publications:   Ha, AY., Do, BH, Bartret, AL, Fang, CX, Hsiao, A., Lutz, AM, Banerjee, I., Riley, GM., Rubin, DL., Stevens, KJ, Wang, E., Wang, W., Beaulieu, CF., Hurt, B. Automating scoliosis measurements in radiographic studies with machine learning: Comparing artificial intelligence and clinical reports. Journal of Digital Imaging, Feb 2022. https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10278-022-00595-x   Larson, N., Nguyen, C., Do, B., Kaul, A., Larson, A., Wang, S., Wang, E., Bultman, E., Stevens, K., Pai, J., Ha, A., Boutin, R., Fredericson, M., Do, L., Fang, C. Artificial Intelligence System for Automatic Quantitative Analysis and Radiology Reporting of Leg Length Radiographs. J Digit Imaging July 2022. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10278-022-00671-2.   Ha, A., Fang, C., Baig, S., Do, BH. Automatic Detection of Aortic Aneurysm on CT Exams Using Deep Convolutional Neural Networks. Scientific presentation. AMIA 2020 Annual Symposium, Virtual, November, 2020.   Aryan Kaul1, Jason Pai2, Charles Fang2, Ed Boas3, Kathryn Stevens2, Jason Saleh2, Vananh Nguyen2, Constance Chu, Jamie Schroder2, Michelle Nguyen2, Joshua Reicher2, Woon Teck Yap2, Amelie Lutz2, Bao H. Do. Automatic Diagnosis of Knee Patella Malalignment on X-ray Using Artificial Intelligence: Performance Comparison with Physicians. Scientific presentation. AMIA 2020 Annual Symposium, Virtual, November, 2020.  Audrey Ha, John Vorhies, Andrew Campion, Charles Fang, Michael Fadell II, Steve Dou, Safwan Halabi, David Larson, Emily Wang, YongJin Lee, Joanna Langner, Japsimran Kaur, Bao Do. Automatic Extraction of Skeletal Maturity from Whole Body Pediatric Scoliosis X-rays Using Regional Proposal and Compound Scaling Convolutional Neural Networks. Scientific presentation, Virtual. IEEE International Conference on Bioinformatics and Biomedicine (BIBM), December 2020.  The goal is to deploy this system VISN wide in VISN21. However, the past 3 years have been spent testing in a limited, "shadow" deployment. Limited = Palo Alto VA only. "Shadow" deployment = the system is never deployed in an autonomous workflow, requires human in the loop, and outputs of the system (annotations of measurements) are never sent back to the PACS or EHRM. Instead, the model's output is sent as text to a marge field/QC field in the Radiologist dictation software called Powerscribe. This does not go to VistA or CPRS or the patient medical record. The merge field is then used by Radiologists if they desire, imported into their draft report. They can review this output, validate visually, and agree or disagree. The program deletes original DICOM data. All annotations of the program, predictions are saved with final radiologist report for audit.  Because the AI system requires human in the loop, never sends output to the ERHM/VistA, and is an optional QC/merge field in the report draft, the technical risks are minimized. Clinically, the model performs orthopedic measurements (patella, leg lengths) and arthritis. The models are not involved in real-time decision support of clinical diseases such as stroke, lung cancer.   However, all systems have risk. We identify the key risk of the Nediser system is that there may be discrepancy between the system draft output and the final report if the Radiologist does not read the AI draft report and inadvertently saves the report.
+ **Whether an independent evaluation of the AI use case has been conducted through the CAIO, an agency AI oversight board, or other appropriate agency office with existing test and evaluation responsibilities, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(C) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. The independent reviewing authority must not have been directly involved in the AI system’s development**: TRUE
+ **Whether there’s an established process for monitoring performance of the AI system’s functionality and changes to its impact on rights and/or safety, including, if relevant, the risk of AI-enabled discrimination, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(D) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Intermittent and Manually Updated: A plan for monitoring the AI use case is in place, and requires data science teams to work with DevOps engineers to manually update models at scheduled intervals, and create metrics to detect data distribution shifts between the operational environment and the training data for the model.
+ **Whether the agency has determined that the AI can carry out its individual core decisions or actions that could result in a significant impact on rights and safety without direct human involvement. The answer should not be “yes” if humans are not reviewing individual decisions and are only overseeing or reviewing the performance of the system in general**: No - Some individual decisions or actions require direct human oversight.
+ **How the agency is providing reasonable and timely notice regarding the use of AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(I) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: N/A - individuals are not interacting with the AI for this use case
+ **How the agency has assessed whether there are significant disparities in the AI’s performance across demographic groups, including in the AI’s real-world deployment, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(A) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: No
+ **How the agency has consulted affected groups, including underserved communities, in the design, development, and use of the AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(B) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: This AI performs computer vision to detect and classify hip arthritis based on the images.
+ **How the agency has consulted affected groups, including underserved communities, in the design, development, and use of the AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(B) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: ["None of the above"]
+ **Whether the agency has established a fallback and escalation process, which may include reverting to manual human processes, in the event that an impacted individual would like to appeal or contest an AI system’s outcome, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(E) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: No – it is not operationally practical to offer this.
+ **Why the agency does not have an established fallback and escalation process**: In Radiology, if patients or providers have a question or concern about a Radiology report, they contact the Radiologist on the report who can discuss and amend the report for errors if necessary.
+ **Whether the agency has established an opt-out mechanism, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(F) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Other
+ **Whether the agency has established an opt-out mechanism, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(F) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: The final radiology report does not change whether the radiologist uses the AI to perform a measurement with validation by the radiologist vs performing the measurement manually.