# Master Claims Assistance Tool (M-CAT)
## VA-2024-0173
_[Department of Veterans Affairs](<../3_agency/Department of Veterans Affairs.md>)_ (VA) / VBA: Veterans Benefits Administration


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Government Services (includes Benefits and Service Delivery)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: Searching for information using AI.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: Function of the system is generative AI use and derivatives to assist VA personnel. Inputs to the model include policy, procedure, and other knowledge management documents such as CFR database knowledge and user entered inquiries.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Outputs include RAG model results from chatbot. Intended users are VA or VBA staff as directed by SES.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Rights-Impacting
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 8/1/2024
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 8/1/2024
+ **Whether the agency requested an extension for this AI use case, in response to the CAIO’s request, of up to one year for the minimum requirements outlined in Section 5 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Yes – Agency requested an extension for this use case.