## VA-2024-0153
+ **Title of the AI use case:**: Using Artificial Intelligence to Predict Suicide
+ **Agency responsible for the AI use case:**: Department of Veterans Affairs
+ **Agency abbreviation:**: VA
+ **Specific organization(s) within the agency responsible for the AI use case:**: VHA: Veterans Health Administration
+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case:**: Health & Medical
+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case:**: 
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B:**: Searching for information using AI.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public:**: Prevention of Veteran suicide is VHA’s top clinical priority. We use AI to identify patients with two key risk factors for death by suicide: 1) having access to a gun, and 2) having an active opioid use disorder. This project is funded by and developed with input from the Office of Suicide Prevention.

THREE REASONS KNOWING ABOUT ACCESS TO GUNS IS CRITICAL TO SUICIDE PREVENTION
First, when a person attempts suicide using a gun, the death rate is about 85%. For the most common method of attempting suicide—drug overdose—the death rate is less than 5%. Second, Veterans are more likely to own a gun and know better how to use it than other patients, so Veterans’ death rate when attempting suicide using a gun is even higher. Third, there are things clinicians can do to protect Veterans from their guns while they are suicidal, such as counselling them to give the guns or the ammunition to friends or family until they feel better.  This is always voluntary, but Veterans very often agree to it, because they see and fear the risk. 

WHY KNOWING WHICH PATIENTS HAVE ACTIVE OPIOID USE IS CRITICAL TO SUICIDE PREVENTION
Patients who die by suicide almost always have a prior history of emotional and mental health difficulties. When they die by suicide, it’s usually not due to that history, but rather because some bad life event (such as breaking up with their spouse) happens and then they have an overwhelming impulse to end their lives. 

Opioid use disorder (OUD) contributes to suicide risk in two ways. First, it makes bad life events much more common. It’s hard to keep a job or have good relationships with OUD. Second, OUD also increases impulsivity. That is, among patients who have just lost their jobs, those with OUD are more likely to have the impulse to end their lives. (Among substance use disorders, we focus on OUD because it is very common and there are good treatments available.)


WHY USE AI TO DETERMINE ACCESS TO GUNS?
The need for AI arise from how information is stored in an electronic health record. For historical reasons, when a clinician sees a patient, there are codes they can use to record what diseases (e.g., diabetes) the patient has, but there is no code for having access to a gun. VHA has considered asking all patients during intake for each visit whether they have access to a gun, but this is time consuming and can cause concern among patients about why they’re always being asked about guns. 

AI, specifically natural language processing (NLP) of clinical notes, offers another way to know which patients have guns. We have developed NLP algorithms that are very good at assessing from notes whether a patient owns or has access to a gun. But we use only notes already written by clinicians, any mention of gun access came voluntarily from the patient. However, to find this information, we need a method that can go through notes quickly, and NLP provides that method. 

WHY USE AI TO ASSESS WHETHER PATIENTS HAVE SUBSTANCE USE DISORDERS?
OUD is a disease, and there are disease codes available to record it. However, because there are many different states you can be in with OUD (e.g., actively using vs in rehab vs sober for years), there are over 100 possible ways to code OUD. Most clinical settings (like outpatient clinics and ERs) have short list of commonly used codes for clinicians to pick from, but that may not offer up much specificity. So most clinics will only put on their list a single code, “opioid use, unspecified” and leave off all the more specific codes. Thus, typical coding practice does not differentiate between a patient who is currently using opioids or one who is 10 years sober (and, if you live along time with OUD, it is usually because you spend much of that time sober). That differentiation is important because the increase in impulsivity with OUD is only during active opiate use.

NLP can again be useful, because descriptions of OUD in clinical notes are likely to be much more specific than the codes used
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc:**: OUR INPUT, OUTPUT, AND INTENDED USER In the “Please add anything else you would like to share” box below we describe in more detail why it is necessary to use AI to find information about gun access or OUD (versus either not having the information or getting that information without using AI). We also describe how we build and test AI models to determine whether a patient has gun access or is actively using opioids. First, however, we think it is important to describe how human clinicians in VHA will use our AI.   The INPUT to our AI models is simply the notes that have already been written on patients. These only contain information volunteered by the patient. The OUTPUT of our models will be simply indicators that a patient **may** have access to a gun or **may** have an active substance use disorder, along with a presentation of the text that leads the AI algorithm to reach its conclusion.   However, the INTENDED USE of the output is that a human mental health clinician be notified about patients at risk, then read the note or notes that led to the determination that the patient was at risk. The clinician may conclude that the AI was incorrect (this occurs about 12-16% of the time with our current models) and drop the issue. Alternatively, the clinician may decide that the patient does have the risk factor and that the risk factor needs to be addressed.   There is no planned interaction between the AI and the patient, nor does the AI make any clinical decisions. Rather, it is a tool to help point clinicians to potentially critical information that they might not otherwise have been aware of.   OUR AI METHOD We begin by creating a list of common terms centered around gun access or OUD. We then pull thousands of pieces of clinical text with these terms in them, and have physicians determine whether the risk factor is present or not. (A term can be present, but the patient can still not have the risk factor in a variety of ways. It could be that “the patient’s brother has a gun” or “the patient has NO gun” or “the patient used to use Fentanyl, but quit”.) The text that has been assessed by physicians is called “labeled data”. We then give our NLP models some of the labeled data, so they can learn what positive and negative examples look like.   For each risk factor, we develop 4 non-neural AI text classification models: random forest, bagging, gradient boosting, and logistic regression with ridge penalization. We also implement two large language models, BioBERT and Bio-ClinicalBERT.   Subsequently, we test each algorithm on other data for which we have (but don’t give the algorithm) the label and ask each algorithm to produce its own labels. We then compare each algorithm’s conclusions to the physicians’ conclusions. That is how we know that our algorithms so far, will be incorrect about 12-16% of the time. Over time, we hope to improve the performance of these algorithms. For example, the large language models are relatively new additions to the AI toolkit and perform better than the non-neural models. We expect further advances over time. However, the current level of accuracy is already higher than many commonly used diagnostic tests, such as mammograms or erythrocyte sedimentation rates.   WHERE DO WE DO THIS WORK? Our team currently uses the Summit Data Platform (SDP) – formerly called the Health Data and Analytics Platform (HDAP) – maintained by the VA Office of Information Technology. This is an Azure Machine Learning environment.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC):**: Acquisition and/or Development
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: Both
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined:**: 10/1/2021
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began:**: 10/1/2021
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use:**: 
+ **Date when the AI use case was retired or began the process of retirement:**: 
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both:**: 
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case:**: 
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/:**: 
+ **Identification of the High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) that the AI use case supports:**: 
+ **Identification of the specific public-facing service that the AI use case supports:**: 
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public:**: 
+ **Description of how the agency is ensuring that this AI use case is compliant with Information Quality Act guidelines and OMB Memorandum M-19-15, if applicable:**: 
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130:**: 
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case:**: 
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development:**: 
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the rights datasets to begin model development:**: 
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor:**: 
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task:**: 
+ **Identification of the demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any:**: 
+ **Identification of the other demographic features explicitly utilized in the AI use case’s data/model(s), if any:**: 
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code:**: 
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case:**: 
+ **Link to publicly available source code for the AI use case, if available, in alignment with OMB Memorandum M-24-10’s section on sharing:**: 
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO:**: 
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO:**: 
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments:**: 
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency:**: 
+ **Explanation for whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency:**: 
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models:**: 
+ **Whether communication regarding the provisioning of requested resources for the AI use case has been timely:**: 
+ **:**: 
+ **Explanation for whether communication regarding the provisioning of requested resources for the AI use case has been timely:**: 
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development:**: 
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency:**: 
+ **Whether the agency requested an extension for this AI use case, in response to the CAIO’s request, of up to one year for the minimum requirements outlined in Section 5 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: 
+ **Whether an AI impact assessment for the AI use case has been completed, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(A) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. This assessment should document at least the intended purpose for the AI and its expected benefits, the potential risks of using the AI, and the quality and appropriateness of the relevant data:**: 
+ **Whether the AI use case has been tested for performance in a real-world environment to understand its potential impact on individual(s) or communities, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(B) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: 
+ **Identification of the reasonably foreseeable risks from using the AI use case, to include the risk of inequitable outcomes for individuals. This can be informed by publicly known risks identified in similar use cases or contexts. Examples of such risks include at least physical injury, emotional/psychological injury, opportunity loss, economic loss, privacy loss, environmental impact, or civil rights and civil liberties impact:**: 
+ **Whether an independent evaluation of the AI use case has been conducted through the CAIO, an agency AI oversight board, or other appropriate agency office with existing test and evaluation responsibilities, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(C) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. The independent reviewing authority must not have been directly involved in the AI system’s development:**: 
+ **Whether there’s an established process for monitoring performance of the AI system’s functionality and changes to its impact on rights and/or safety, including, if relevant, the risk of AI-enabled discrimination, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(D) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: 
+ **Whether the agency has determined that the AI can carry out its individual core decisions or actions that could result in a significant impact on rights and safety without direct human involvement. The answer should not be “yes” if humans are not reviewing individual decisions and are only overseeing or reviewing the performance of the system in general:**: 
+ **How the agency is providing reasonable and timely notice regarding the use of AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(I) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: 
+ **How the agency is providing reasonable and timely notice regarding the use of AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(iv)(I) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: 
+ **Whether the AI use case significantly influences the outcome of an adverse decision or action, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(D) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Examples include the denial of benefits or deeming a transaction fraudulent:**: 
+ **How the agency has assessed whether there are significant disparities in the AI’s performance across demographic groups, including in the AI’s real-world deployment, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(A) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: 
+ **How the agency has consulted affected groups, including underserved communities, in the design, development, and use of the AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(B) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: 
+ **How the agency has consulted affected groups, including underserved communities, in the design, development, and use of the AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(B) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: 
+ **How the agency has consulted affected groups, including underserved communities, in the design, development, and use of the AI, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(B) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: 
+ **Whether the agency has established a fallback and escalation process, which may include reverting to manual human processes, in the event that an impacted individual would like to appeal or contest an AI system’s outcome, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(E) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: 
+ **Why the agency does not have an established fallback and escalation process:**: 
+ **Whether the agency has established an opt-out mechanism, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(F) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: 
+ **Whether the agency has established an opt-out mechanism, consistent with Section 5(c)(v)(F) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10:**: 