# VA TryOpenAI
## VA-2024-0091
_[Department of Veterans Affairs](<../3_agency/Department of Veterans Affairs.md>)_ (VA) / OIT: Office of Information & Technology


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Mission-Enabling (internal agency support)
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: TryOpenAI aims to improve VA employee efficiency and satisfaction. TryOpenAI can be used complete basic administrative tasks like drafting emails and communications, summarizing long text, and draft template project plans (among other similar uses).
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: Tasks pilot users use TryOpenAI for    Writing Enhancement and Communication Support:  - Drafting and editing professional emails, letters of recommendation, and narrative write-ups.  - Generating and refining performance appraisals, award write-ups, and administrative correspondence.  - Summarizing large documents including meeting transcripts and project reports for email announcements    Administrative Task Automation:  - Streamlining the creation of meeting minutes to improve efficiency in documentation workflows.  - Automating responses for customer service inquiries or generating template-based outputs for routine tasks.  - Organizing thoughts and prioritizing information to aid in decision-making    Creative and Technical Problem Solving:  - Brainstorming ideas for project development and strategy formulation.  - Assisting with technical problems such as understanding PowerShell scripting or SQL configuration settings.  - Designing website layouts, drafting emails with complex content, and conceptualizing Power apps    Research Aid and Learning Tool:  - Gathering information on specific subjects like VA public information or medical guidelines.  - Finding synonyms or generating ideas for naming conventions in research contexts.  - Seeking deep insights into subject matter for personal knowledge enhancement or educational purposes    Amongst other similar tasks
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Implementation and Assessment
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 9/1/2023
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 10/1/2023
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 11/1/2023
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed with contracting resources.
+ **Identification of the Procurement Instrument Identifier(s) (PIID) of the contract(s) used for the AI use case**: 47QTCA22D003G, 36C10B22F0089
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: No
+ **General description of the data used for training, fine-tuning, and evaluation of the AI use case’s model(s). This should include a description of any data provided by the agency, whether the datasets are research datasets, publicly available, external, etc. and to the extent possible, sufficiently descriptive information from the vendor**: None
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation has been partially completed: Some documentation exists (detailing the composition and any statistical bias or measurement skew for training and evaluation purposes), but documentation took place within this use case’s development.
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: Yes
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: Yes – agency has access to source code, but it is not public.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: Yes
+ **Name of the system(s) associated with this AI use case, according to the ATO**: TryOpenAI
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Other
+ **Whether communication regarding the provisioning of requested resources for the AI use case has been timely**: We do not require computing resources for model training and development in this case. We DO require computing resources for model usage, though
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: Use of existing data platforms: This use case is being developed on existing enterprise data and analytics platforms within the agency rather than procuring additional platforms or SaaS to operate.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: Limited documentation for review: Some information regarding the model’s performance on specific benchmarks are available or have been shared with specific stakeholders within the agency.