# Deep-Learning approaches to develop candidate lists of terms for use in text searches
## VA-2024-0140
_Department of Veterans Affairs_ (VA) / VHA: Veterans Health Administration


+ **The topic area that most closely aligns with the AI use case**: Health & Medical
+ **Whether the use case is implemented solely with the commercial-off-the-shelf or freely available AI products identified in Appendix B**: None of the above.
+ **Description of the AI’s intended purpose, including: (1) what problem the AI is used to solve and (2) the expected benefits and positive outcomes from the AI for an agency’s mission and/or the general public**: The intended use is to increase the comprehensiveness of term lists to be used in text-matching approaches to identifying concepts of interest in free-text medical record notes. Text-matching approaches are an efficient method for identifying text of interest in medical notes.  The success of text-matching approaches depends on the quality of term lists used to search for a concept of interest.  While humans can generate word lists for text-matching approaches, the generated word lists are likely to be limited and biased by the vocabulary, language habits, population exposure, and local dialects of the human generating the list.  Deep learning methods can help to augment candidate term lists to help overcome some of these challenges.  Once generated these augmented candidate terms are reviewed by subject matter experts for appropriateness and accuracy of the suggested terms for the concept and use case of interest.  Here we (1) query pre-trained large language models (e.g., ChatGPT or Llama) through a user interface that allows prompting (such as the OpenAI API or CodeLlama) and/or (2) query word and phrase “embedding” models (e.g., Word2Vec and Phrase2Vec) to expand candidate term lists for review by subject matter experts.  Our team has found both approaches effective for expediting the generation of more comprehensive term to concept mappings for use in text-matching algorithms that increase the accuracy of clinical concept extraction.   We expect this use of AI to improve initial brainstorming of terms related to a given concept, resulting in a more sensitive approach to finding information of interest in free-text clinical notes.
+ **Description of what the AI system outputs, whether it’s a prediction, recommendation, decision, etc**: The outputs of this use of AI is a candidate list of terms related to a concept of interest.  This candidate list is combined with suggestions generated by human experts and then these are reviewed by a subject matter expert to generate a final list of terms for use in text-matching algorithms to extract medical record free text mentions of interest. For the pre-trained Large Language model approach, the input is a query prompting for synonyms of terms related to the concept of interest.  The output is the answer provided by the LLM, including the suggested candidate terms and the original terms that were stated in the query.  For the word and phrase embedding models, the input is an initial list of terms that are relevant to the concept of interest and the output are the suggested candidate terms, ranked by their statistical similarity to the original terms, based on the transformation of a clinical corpus into vector space or an “embedding model”.  Regardless of the type of model used, all suggested candidate terms are reviewed by subject matter experts to ensure quality term lists are used in all text searches.
+ **The current stage of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the AI use case (See System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Glossary | NIST CSRC)**: Operation and Maintenance
+ **Whether the AI use case is rights-impacting or safety-impacting, as defined in Section 6 of OMB Memorandum M-24-10. Note also that Appendix I of that memorandum lists categories of use cases that are presumed by default to impact rights and safety. If your use case falls into those lists, you must not answer “neither” to this question without a formal determination made by your agency’s Chief AI Officer, pursuant to Section 5(b) of OMB Memorandum M-24-10**: Neither
+ **Date when the AI use case’s purpose and high-level requirements were first defined**: 10/1/2022
+ **Date when the acquisition and/or development of the AI system associated with the use case first began**: 10/1/2022
+ **Date when the AI use case was fully implemented and deployed into use**: 10/1/2022
+ **Whether the AI system involved in the use case was developed, or is expected to be developed, exclusively with contracting resources, in-house, or a combination of both**: Developed in-house.
+ **Whether the AI use case supports a High-Impact Service Provider (HISP) public-facing service. The full list of HISP public-facing services can be found at https://www.performance.gov/cx/hisps/**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case disseminates information to the public**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case involves personally identifiable information (PII), as defined in OMB Circular A-130**: No
+ **Whether the agency’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) has assessed the privacy risks associated with this AI use case**: No
+ **Whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the right datasets to begin model development**: Other
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case made use of agency-wide infrastructure to quickly identify the rights datasets to begin model development**: The subject matter expert teams relevant to the concept of interest create the needed queries and initial term lists.
+ **Whether the data has sufficient documentation of its integrity, quality, and validity as a training set for a specific task**: Documentation is missing or not available: No documentation exists regarding maintenance, composition, quality, or intended use of the training and evaluation data.
+ **Whether this AI project includes custom-developed code**: No
+ **Whether the agency has access to the code associated with the AI use case**: No – agency does not have access to source code.
+ **Whether the AI use case itself has an associated Authority to Operate (ATO), or is part of a system that has an ATO**: No
+ **Estimated length of time the AI project waited for basic computing and developer tools to build machine learning models. This includes Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), along with access to open-source code libraries, frameworks, and other coding software or developer environments**: Less than 6 months
+ **Whether the required IT infrastructure is identified and provisioned via a centralized process (such as a unified intake form) that enables product owners and developers to find the right development environment inside the agency**: Yes
+ **Explanation for whether the AI use case has an identifiable process to request computing resources (such as cloud computing credits or computing hardware) to develop and test models**: Yes
+ **Has the communication been timely**: Yes
+ **Whether the AI use case promotes re-use of existing infrastructure to promote AI development**: Re-use production level code and/or data products: This use case re-uses production level code as well as data products that have been published or made widely available for data science teams for within the agency.
+ **Whether information regarding the AI use case has been made widely accessible within the agency**: No documentation is available: No documentation detailing model performance metrics, model architecture, features and intended use of the models have been created or are currently accessible to other data science teams within the agency.